
DATE = 2015011523:25
SYMBOL = INTC
Intel's Report Leaves A Slightly Sour Taste Summary Q4 revenues beat slightly. Q4 EPS beat mostly due to low tax rate. Q1 guidance a little soft. Cash balance a slight worry for capital return fans. After the bell on Thursday, chip giant Intel (NASDAQ:INTC) reported its fourth quarter and full year 2014 results. Overall, results were a little mixed. The company was slightly ahead of revenues estimates for Q4 but blew out the EPS number thanks to a low tax rate. Guidance for Q1 was a little light, and shares edged down in the after-hours session. Today, I'll analyze the company's results. Fourth quarter results: As I detailed in my Intel earnings preview, the company gave the following guidance for Q4:
Revenue: $14.7 billion, plus or minus $500 million.
Gross margin: 64%, plus or minus a couple of percentage points.
R&D plus MG&A spending: approximately $4.9 billion.
Restructuring charges: approximately $45 million.
Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles: approximately $65 million.
Impact of equity investments and interest and other: approximately $175 million net gain.
Depreciation: approximately $1.9 billion.
Tax rate: approximately 28%.
Full-year capital spending: $11.0 billion, plus or minus $500 million.
For the quarter, Intel announced revenues of $14.721 billion, slightly ahead of the consensus estimate for $14.7 billion. Gross margins came in at 65.36%, nicely ahead of Intel's forecast for 64%. This beat was mainly driven by higher platform average selling prices for the PC Client Group and Data Center Group microprocessors and chipsets. You can see the full gross margin analysis in the CFO commentary letter.
R&D plus MG&A spending came in at $5.039 billion versus the company's $4.9 billion forecast. These extra operating expenses were mostly due to profit dependent spending. Restructuring and amortization expenses were also a bit higher than the company's forecast. Overall, Intel had operating income of $4.453 billion, nicely ahead of the roughly $4.4 billion if you use guidance midpoints.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015011519:43
SYMBOL = EBAY
Why eBay Is A Sound Long-Term Investment After the PayPal spinoff, investors will have shares in both eBay - the parent company with key competitive advantages - and its high growth spinoff business.
eBay provides a secure global marketplace, an essential competitive advantage in e-commerce, which provides a stable support for future growth.
As a publicly traded company, PayPal will have greater flexibility to widen its economic moat and capitalize tailwinds.
Certain elements to watch out for are moves from competition and the extent to which these could negatively affect revenue growth for both eBay and PayPal.
Since the announcement of PayPal's spinoff and weak Q3 2014 results for eBay there has been mixed feelings in the market toward this stock. Despite the uncertainties that competition -- like Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN) or Alibaba (NYSE:BABA) -- might bring in this industry, investors can still benefit significantly from buying this stock before the spinoff. As management stated in the Q3 2014 earnings report, the company has faced near term challenges like a cyber attack and changes in Google SEO. Despite obstacles like these, eBay still maintains its main competitive advantages and certain long-term prospects. In that sense, eBay seems like a parent company well-suited for investment. Moreover, its spinoff business, PayPal, is one of the leading online payment services amid a large, burgeoning industry. Hence, once separated, both eBay and PayPal have potential to increase their capital gains significantly in the long-term. The Potential Of The Parent Company At the moment, one of the leading companies in the e-commerce industry is eBay, which provides an online marketplace to sellers and buyers around the world. By increasing its gross merchandise volume, the company is able to increase its revenue, as it charges users for every item they list in the marketplace. As a result of its ongoing global expansion, it continues to grow in revenue despite a relatively weak third quarter. In addition, its recognized global brand, considered as a wide economic moat, could allow the business to further propel its growth in the future. Currently, one of the most needed aspects of an e-commerce site is its ability to provide a secure platform for customer's payment information. eBay's experience in the market gives customers this sense of security. Moreover, the company has shown its resilience and contingency plans against cyber attacks, which ultimately help to protect its long-term reputation. This need for security will most likely persevere in the future as e-commerce continues to grow, which gives eBay a long-term competitive advantage. As a result, eBay's marketplace seems sustainable and suitable for long-term investors. Moreover, the spinoff could allow eBay to intensify its focus on customer satisfaction and support, which improves its economic goodwill and thus increases its value.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015011620:32
SYMBOL = GOOGL
Google Inc is in talks to buy mobile-payments company Softcard, technology news website TechCrunch reported on Friday, citing people familiar with the matter.
The deal could help pair Google with the largest U.S. wireless carriers to battle Apple Inc and its new Apple Pay service, TechCrunch wrote.
The deal may be valued below $100 million, the report said citing sources.
Softcard is jointly owned by AT&T Inc, Verizon Communication Inc's Verizon Wireless Inc and T-Mobile US Inc.
Google was not immediately available for comment outside regular U.S. business hours.
"We do not comment on merger speculation," said a Softcard representative. (Reporting by Anet Josline Pinto in Bengaluru; Editing by Ken Wills and Lisa Shumaker)
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015011615:08  
SYMBOL = TGT
Target Corp will exit the Canadian market after less than two years in a surprise retreat that will throw more than 17,000 employees out of work and trigger a $5.4 billion quarterly loss.
Shares of the US discount retailer, which was granted creditor protection for its money-losing Canadian subsidiary, at one point rose more than 4% on the move. The stock was up 2.2% at $75.94 in afternoon trade on the New York Stock Exchange.
The company announced on Thursday it is shutting all of its 133 Canadian stores and said it expects to report about $5.4 billion in pretax losses for its fourth quarter, which finishes at the end of January. Losses are mostly due to the write down of the Canadian investment, along with exit costs and operating losses.
Minneapolis-based Target, the No. 2 discount chain in the United States, has struggled in Canada since its March 2013 launch. It faced huge supply chain problems due to a myriad of problems at its warehouses, poor communication with headquarters and the use of inexperienced staff. That left stores poorly stocked and selection limited, disappointing shoppers who had eagerly anticipated its arrival in a market where the discount space was long dominated by Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
Target had said in November it would review the future of the Canadian business after the holiday season. Stores checked by Reuters in Vancouver, Toronto and Ottawa around Christmas showed only moderate traffic and Chief Executive Brian Cornell said he didn't see the "step-change" in performance required to justify staying the course.
No matter how Target crunched the numbers it could not envision making profits until 2021, Cornell said. He told a conference call the company was "facing a decision to devote billions of dollars of additional resources for the Canadian segment without the realistic prospect of an appropriate return."
The move surprised some analysts who had expected Target to close its weakest stores and try to fix the rest. Before Thursday's decision Target had sunk roughly $6 billion into the market, including around $2.5 billion in capital expenditure and $1.7 billion of losses to-date, Fitch Ratings said.
"Anything you could have gotten wrong in the playbook, they got wrong," said Antony Karabus, CEO of retail consultant firm HRC Advisory.
Target said exiting Canada would allow it to focus resources on the US market, where it is recovering from a massive data breach during the holiday quarter of 2013. Target said comparable US sales during the fourth quarter would likely rise 3%, up from its 2% forecast. It also raised its estimate for adjusted earnings per share in the quarter to $1.43 to $1.47, an upward revision of 6 cents.
Expectations Canadian retailers would benefit from the pullout helped lift their shares, with Canadian Tire up more than 5% at one point, and grocers Loblaw and Empire Co both up about 2%. Wal-Mart is also seen as a beneficiary and could look to pick up some of the abandoned locations, analysts said.
Target said it would look to grow in the United States by expanding its smaller format stores, including those in big cities.
But the failure in Canada raises serious doubts about the retailer's long-term growth prospects, said Jim Danahy, director of the Centre for Retail Leadership at York University's Schulich School of Business in Toronto.
"There isn't a bigger implosion and it needs to be really understood this is entirely their fault," Danahy said.
Target had hired Eleven Points Logistics, a subsidiary of Pittsburgh-based Genco, to run its Canadian warehouses.
The company had also reached a long-term wholesale agreement with Empire Co's Sobeys to supply it with groceries in Canada. A spokesman for Sobeys said the loss of the account would not have a material impact on its results. Genco could not immediately be reached for comment.
Former Target and Eleven Points employees had told Reuters about a laundry list of problems at the warehouses, stores, and headquarters, especially in the first year. They said a combination of new technology and systems, inexperienced hires and poor training all contributed to supply chain woes.
Barcodes on many items did not match what was in the computer system, they said, causing massive warehouse logjams, while store backrooms were stacked from "floor to rafters", making it difficult to locate products to put on shelves.
Target said stores would remain open during liquidation, and that with court approval it would pay all of its Canadian employees a minimum of 16 weeks of compensation.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015010618:49
SYMBOL = GOOGL
Google Inc (GOOGL.O) may be moving into the U.S. auto insurance market with a shopping site for people to compare and buy policies, an analyst said on Thursday, as it continues to shift its attention to the automotive industry.
The search giant is planning soon to pilot its new Google Compare auto insurance comparison shopping site, wrote Forrester analyst Ellen Carney in a note. According to Carney, the company has been pitching the service to insurance providers for more than two years.
Google, which currently offers a service in the UK for users to compare over 125 auto insurance options, takes a cut when a user buys insurance online or by phone.
Industry experts say the Mountain View-based company has increasingly been exploring online searches tailored toward specific industries or markets. Google already offers its users a site to compare travel destinations and find the cheapest flight fares, for instance.
Google in past years has begun to expand beyond its home turf of Internet search and advertising, seeking to extend its technological dominance to fields as diverse as self-driving cars and robotics.
Carney expects the California pilot for the new service to begin in the first quarter of 2015. Google is already licensed to sell auto insurance in 26 states and is working with a handful of insurers including Dairyland, MetLife and others, she said.
In addition, a Google employee is licensed to sell insurance on behalf of CoverHound, a San Francisco-based company that pulls insurance options from the largest carriers. ‘
Google said it does not comment on speculation.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015012117:44
SYMBOL = EBAY
E-commerce company eEbay Inc on Wednesday announced an agreement with activist investor Carl Icahn that will give investors a greater say in its PayPal payments unit once it is spun off and said it exploring a sale or public offering of its enterprise unit.
The moves could lay the groundwork for a future acquisition of eBay and PayPal by companies looking to gain a foothold in the e-commerce and online payments markets. Wall Street analysts have identified Alibaba (BABA.N), Google (GOOGL.O) and Amazon (AMZN.O) as potential acquirers.
EBay also said it plans to cut its workforce by 7 percent, or 2,400 jobs, in the current quarter.
EBay shares were up 2.6 percent at $54.75 in after hours trade.
The company reported fourth-quarter earnings that slightly topped Wall Street expectations, but its outlook for the 2015 first quarter and full year fell short of estimates.
Under the standstill agreement with Icahn, eBay's largest active shareholder, Icahn Capital executive Jonathan Christodoro was named to eBay's board. He will have the ability to transition to PayPal's board once the spin-off occurs.
EBay also is adding two Wall Street bankers to its board, expanding the number of directors to 15.
PayPal agreed to adopt a number of measures proposed by Icahn, which the billionaire said enhance corporate governance at the fast-growing payments arm. The provisions are intended to give shareholders a larger voice in important decisions, particularly an acquisition bid.
They include a provision that any “poison pill” designed to ward off acquisition attempts be ratified by stockholders or expire after 135 days, and that holders of 20 percent of its shares be allowed to call a special meeting of stakeholders.
"As we have said many times in the past, we believe that if an offer is made for a company it should be the decision of the shareholders – not the board – to decide whether that offer is worth accepting," Icahn said in a statement posted on his website.
The planned job cuts will be across the marketplace, payments and enterprise divisions, eBay said. Restructuring and separation costs are expected to be between $210 million and $240 million in the first quarter and $350 million to $400 million for the entire year.
For the 2015 first quarter, eBay forecast earnings between 68 cents and 71 cents a share, below analysts' estimates of 76 cents per share. Its revenue forecast of $4.35 billion to $4.45 billion fell short of the average Wall Street forecast of just over $4.7 billion.
EBay plans to split its marketplace division from PayPal in the second half of this year. PayPal will be a standalone publicly traded company, which some analysts say will be worth $40 billion.
EBay is also exploring a sale or an initial public offering of its enterprise division, which helps retailers around the world beef up their online presence. The company said the unit did not fit neatly with PayPal or the marketplace division.
EBay earned 90 cents per share in the fourth quarter. It was expected to earn 89 cents per share, according to the average analyst estimated compiled by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. In the year-ago quarter, it earned 81 cents per share.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015011518:01
SYMBOL = INTC
Chipmaker Intel Corp forecast current-quarter revenue and gross margins that disappointed investors, sending its shares down more than 2 percent in extended trading.
Revenue from its mainstay PC business fell about 3 percent to $8.9 billion in the fourth quarter from the third, raising doubts about the expected recovery of the personal computer business.
Global personal computer shipments fell 2.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2014, according to research firm IDC, capping three years of declines.
That was not as bad as expected, raising hopes among some investors that the PC market is starting to stabilize.
That optimism has helped drive Intel's stock up 16 percent in the past three months, compared with a 7 percent gain for the S&P 500, to levels not seen since 2001.
In the light of that, Wall Street was hoping for more encouraging figures.
"The top line looked a little bit light of the Street and gross margin looked a little bit light," Christopher Rolland, an analyst at FBR Capital Markets, said.
"PC was weaker in the fourth quarter than we were expecting," Rolland added.
The chipmaker forecast first-quarter revenue of $13.76 billion, plus or minus $500 million, and gross margins of about 60 percent, far below the 65.4 percent it reported in the fourth quarter.
Analysts on average were expecting revenue of $13.77 billion, according to Thomson Reuters.
Despite exceeding the goal of seeing its chips used in 40 million tablets this year, the heavy subsidies that Intel offered added to its operating loss in its mobile business.
Net income for the fourth quarter rose to $3.66 billion, or 74 cents per share, for the quarter ended Dec. 27, from $2.6 billion, or 51 cents per share, a year earlier.
Revenue rose to $14.7 billion from $13.8 billion.
Analysts on average had expected a profit of 66 cents per share on revenue of $14.71 billion, according to Thomson Reuters .
Intel shares were down 2.8 percent in after-hours trading at $35.16, after closing on Nasdaq at $36.19.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015010619:22
SYMBOL = JCP
Department store operator J.C. Penney Co Inc said same-store sales rose 3.7 percent in November and December, boosting its shares and offering a glimpse of what is expected to be the best holiday season for retailers since 2011.
Shares of J.C. Penney, the first major retailer to report results for the Christmas period, surged almost 20 percent on the announcement in after-hours trading, erasing a downtrend that saw it lose 18 percent since the end of November, the traditional start to the holiday shopping season.
Brian Sozzi, head of Belus Capital Advisors, said investors had been overly bearish on J.C. Penney's prospects and underestimated consumer spending in general for the holiday season.
Everything points to consumers having spent "more aggressively than some of the doom and gloomers had been predicting," Sozzi said, adding that J.C. Penney's results would likely be followed by a solid holiday report from Macy's Inc.
Macy's, which hasn't set a date to release its sales data, has projected comparable sales to grow 1.8 percent to 2.8 percent during the holiday quarter.
J.C. Penney offered few details in its release on Tuesday. In addition to the November-December result, it said it expected fourth quarter comparable-store sales growth at the upper end of its previous forecast of 2-4 percent.
The sales growth reflected strong demand for women’s accessories such as shoes and handbags, beauty products, and jewelry, company spokeswoman Daphne Avila said. She said sales of gift cards were also brisk.
J.C. Penney has been on the rebound this year after reversing an ill-fated attempt to move upmarket under former Chief Executive Ron Johnson. Marvin Ellison, a former Home Depot executive, is slated to take the helm from current CEO Myron Ullman in August.
Some analysts have said holiday sales may come in above expectations thanks to the improving economy and the continued fall in the price of gasoline, which freed up money to spend on gifts.
The National Retail Federation, the industry's main trade body, has forecast that retail sales will increase 4.1 percent during November and December, the biggest jump since 2011.
J.C. Penney's shares closed up 1.86 percent at $6.56 on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday before rising another 19 percent to $7.81 in extended trading.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014121617:36
SYMBOL = QCOM
Pres. Obama recently pressed Chinese president Xi Jinping about attempts by Chinese regulators to limit the royalties collected by foreign companies for the use of their IP.National Security Council spokesman Patrick Ventrell: "The United States government is concerned that China is using numerous mechanisms, including anti-monopoly law, to lower the value of foreign-owned patents and benefit Chinese firms employing foreign technology ... President Obama raised these concerns."Though Obama reportedly didn't mention Qualcomm (NASDAQ:QCOM) by name, it's the only major U.S. company currently subject to a Chinese antitrust probe related to royalty rates.While the probe continues, Qualcomm has stated it thinks Chinese licensees are under-reporting sales of royalty-bearing devices, and that some might be holding off on getting licenses. The company's light FY15 guidance had much to do with its Chinese licensing issues.The White House's efforts could also have implications for InterDigital (NASDAQ:IDCC), which has seen its own Chinese royalty-collection issues. China's antitrust regulator suspended a probe of InterDigital in May after the company made a series of licensing commitments.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014121617:21
SYMBOL = GE
GE offered conservative guidance for its FY 2015 earnings in an investor presentation today, predicting EPS of $1.70-$1.80 vs. analyst expectations of $1.79, and seeing industrial EPS growing by "double digits" to $1.10-$1.20 and ~$0.60 at GE Capital."We like our competitive position" in the energy industry, CEO Jeff Immelt said while acknowledging the company is cutting costs at its oil and gas unit and expects operating profit there to come in flat to -5% next year.“The rest of the company looks fine,” the CEO said, with organic industrial growth expected at 2%-5% in 2015; GE maintained an outlook for 17% margins in 2016.Immelt also said the slowdown in China isn't a worry, emphasizing that aviation and other industries in China remain strong.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014121521:46
SYMBOL = BA
On Monday, Boeing boosted its dividend and announced a new buyback program.
With a $490 billion backlog, Boeing has the revenue visibility to keep growing its dividend for several years.
With increasing capital returns and an attractive valuation, I would buy Boeing and expect a rally in 2015.
2014 has been a disappointing year for Boeing (NYSE:BA) bulls like myself as shares have fallen 10.6% year to date. However, we got an early Christmas present on Monday evening when Boeing announced a dividend hike and new buyback program (press release available here). This news sent shares jumping about $3 to $125 after hours. With its massive backlog, I believe the Boeing story is still in the early innings, and there will be growing dividends for years to come. At less than 16x earnings, I would be a buyer of Boeing going into 2015.
The company's board authorized a 25% hike to the quarterly dividend to $0.91 from $0.73. The board also authorized a new $12 billion buyback that replaces the existing plan, which had $4.8 billion remaining. Boeing has completed its repurchases in 2014, which totaled $6 billion. Boeing will begin buying back stock under this new program starting in January. The program is open-ended and is expect to last two or three years. Given the pace of repurchases in 2014, I expect this authorization to last around two years with about $5.5 billion-$6.5 billion to be bought back next year. This will amount to about 6% of outstanding shares, which will further accelerate EPS growth.
Importantly, Boeing has the ability to sustainably generate cash flow that can cover these capital returns. Boeing's backlog stands at $490 billion (all financial and operating data available here). This backlog is driven by blockbuster new planes like the Dreamliner and 777x, which provide airlines with much more fuel efficiency. Thanks to lower fuel costs, these planes will generate substantial savings over their lifespan, which has driven their popularity. With this backlog, Boeing has tremendous revenue visibility, and it can run its factories at full capacity through 2020 without receiving a single net new order.
Even though Boeing operates in a cyclical business, this backlog gives the company crystal-clear revenue visibility. We are in the midst of an aerospace boom thanks to innovative products. Moreover, consolidation among the carriers has removed excess capacity, allowing them to generate substantial profitability. Improved financials will allow the carriers to upgrade their fleet, boosting demand for Boeing's products. The only constraint on Boeing's performance is on the supply side. Clearly, there is massive demand for Boeing planes as evidenced by the backlog.
Boeing is now adding capacity, expanding assembly lines, and improving its supply chain management to turn out more planes. As Boeing ads capacity, it should begin delivering more planes, hopefully 120-125 Dreamliners and over 750 planes in total next year. Increasing capacity will boost Boeing's revenue, earnings, and cash flow. I expect Boeing to earn $8.00-$8.20 next year, giving the stock a forward multiple of 15.2x. With its massive backlog, this is an extremely attractive valuation. At this earnings rate, Boeing should generate about $7 billion in free cash flow. With $1.2 billion in net cash, Boeing can easily afford its capital return plan, which will cost $8 billion-$9 billion next year. Free cash flow will cover most of this sum, and Boeing can afford to add some net debt to its capital structure, given the visibility of its revenue.
Clearly, shareholders should be glad Boeing will be returning even more to them in 2015. Boeing is in the midst of massive growth, powered by its nearly $500 billion backlog. Going forward, Boeing yields roughly 3% and will be buying back about $6 billion in stock. Thanks to tremendous new products and investments in additional capacity, Boeing will be able to generate 5%-12% earnings growth through 2019. Below $130, I would be an aggressive buyer of BA, and I expect shares to perform much better in 2015, likely getting towards $150.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014121521:39
SYMBOL = INTC
Intel has produced massive gains for investors patient enough to hold on.
The dividend isn't what it was, but still pays well.
I think Intel is worth about $40 right now, implying 10% upside.
Tech giant Intel (NASDAQ:INTC) has been one of the great turnaround stories in mega-cap stocks I've ever personally witnessed. The company was left for dead a couple of years ago; the PC market was allegedly dying and clumsy old Intel was unable to adapt to the changing times. Many investors stuck with Intel during those dark times when others didn't and those investors have certainly had the last laugh. Intel shares have doubled since their lows at the end of 2012 and have paid out $1.80 in dividends as well, boosting total returns further. With the business still strong but the stock up so much, is it time to dump Intel or is there more left for shareholders to reap? In this article, I'll take a look at Intel to see if it has a place in a value investor's portfolio.To do this I'll use a DCF-type model you can read more about here. The model uses inputs including earnings estimates, which I've borrowed from Yahoo, dividends, which I've set to grow at 7% per year and a discount rate, which I've set as the 10-year Treasury rate plus a risk premium of 5.75%.
We can see the model produced a fair value of about $40 for Intel, about three dollars higher than it trades for as I write this. That is a moderate difference that would indicate that Intel is a buy right now, but what are we looking at? The model is intended to produce a fair value at which shares can be bought with some margin of safety. That means, with Intel trading roughly 8% lower than the fair value, shares look like a pretty strong buy right now. But let's take a closer look and see exactly what we're dealing with.
Intel's business has been very strong in the past couple of years to say the least. The company that couldn't innovate and was going to have to cut its dividend turned out to be an imposter; Intel has innovated its way out of a deep hole and did not cut its payout. In fact, Intel has been able to boost its revenue by more than $2 billion this year while posting the highest margins the company has seen since 2010. This has allowed earnings to begin climbing again after 2013's substantial and worrying drop.
Intel has done an extraordinary job of growing in the mobile space, the space that really matters in today's world. Standard media like PCs and servers will always matter and INTC needs to compete there. But the growth will come from tablets and phones as more and more computing power is taken away from standard methods and transferred to mobile devices where possible. This is where INTC has executed and this is why the stock has doubled; the company that was left for dead at $18 wasn't competing in the mobile space and now that investors believe, shares have moved up sharply.
It's also interesting that INTC has been one of the best performers in the Dow (NYSEARCA:DIA) over the past year as we've seen marked underperformance erased and strong outperformance the norm for 2014.
This, along with the dividend, has made Intel one of the best mega-caps to own in 2014 and given the company's momentum, I hesitate to say 2015 will be different.
And speaking of Intel's dividend, much was made of the lack of an increase in 2014 but we received news recently that Intel's dividend would be 96 cents in 2015, a robust increase of about 7% over 2014. That was much welcomed news for investors who had a hard time digesting the lack of an increase this year and shares were sent higher as a result.
The implied yield of 2.6% certainly isn't the 4% it was at the bottom in 2012 but it still ranks as a very nice yield in the world of tech mega caps. Intel, however, has committed to $4.9 billion in dividend payments next year (at the current share count) out of only $9.7 billion in FCF. I say "only" because Intel is a very, very capital intensive business and when you're spending half your FCF on dividends, buybacks become difficult to finance when you have to balance the development needs of the business. It's not as though Intel can't handle its capital returns, but 7% increases in the dividend may be harder to come by in the years to come, particularly with Intel's history of buybacks. It will be interesting to watch what mix of capital allocation management chooses in the future.
Overall the picture for Intel looks pretty bright right now. The business is very strong and although FCF has dwindled a bit in the past year, strong earnings momentum should help bolster that metric, allowing ample room for the higher dividend and buybacks that Intel loves so much. Next year looks to be another one of Intel's outperformance against the market given the boosted dividend and strong fundamentals. I think Intel's fair value right now is $40 and that means it's a buy.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014121521:09
SYMBOL = IBM
IBM has been in freefall for better than three months.
The company is directionless after decades of the same broken strategies.
I think shares still have substantial downside potential as EPS estimates for the future continue to erode.
Shareholders of IBM Corp. (NYSE:IBM) have had, well, let's say, an "interesting" year. The stock has been wildly volatile, as IBM's leadership team, financials and strategic direction have all been in doubt in investors' collective minds. This has led to some downright horrendous performance in the stock, and has turned Big Blue into the Big Bruise for investors. I personally have not been a fan of IBM, as I think the company lacks a direction - any direction - after years and years of trying to engineer profits via crafty financial dealings instead of growing the actual business. But, for whatever it's worth, IBM has declined quite substantially this year, and in light of that, I'll use this article to assess if the pain may be over soon or if the falling knife should be avoided.
To do this, I'll use a DCF-type model you can read more about here. The model uses basic inputs including earnings estimates, which I've taken from Yahoo, dividends, which I've set to grow at 4% per year, and a discount rate, which I've set at the 10-year Treasury rate plus a risk premium of 5.75%.
We can see something quite extraordinary here; the model has produced a fair value for IBM of $260. This is a full $100 higher than the current share price. But before you click away from this article and write me off as a nincompoop, please, allow me to explain. The model is intended to provide a fair value entry point that allows for a margin of safety in a stock. Given that IBM is $100 below the fair value price, it may look pretty enticing. However, the model is only as good as the inputs, and that is where our discussion begins.
I mentioned analyst estimates are used in the model, and I'd like to start there. Estimates have been falling like a rock for a while now, with next year's EPS coming down a full three dollars in just the past three months. That's all kinds of ugly, and it means that even the Street is losing faith in IBM's ability to execute. And that's the problem with IBM's valuation; what are you valuing? You're valuing a business that has no book value (thank you, Peter Greulich, for another excellent article), no discernible strategic direction and a long history of trying to game the system instead of growing the business. The problem is that only works for so long, and eventually, the business catches up.
IBM is currently trading for only 9 times next year's earnings estimates, which sounds cheap, but the problem is nobody knows what next year's earnings will be. Sure, it's nine times the current estimate, but that same estimate was $3 higher in September than it is now; imagine what it will be in March or June. In other words, any valuation of IBM right now is a bet that EPS won't continue to get hammered into next year, and right now, for the reasons I've stated, I'm not willing to make that bet.
IBM has become a black hole that takes investor capital and wastes it on never-ending attempts to engineer a way to EPS growth, regardless of whether or not it's working. And the model's fair value calculation illustrates to me that investors have absolutely zero faith in IBM's ability to execute, because if they did, the stock would never have reached $157; it would have been bid up a long time ago. But no one trusts the numbers right now, and that's a serious problem for bulls.
This chart of IBM against its Dow 30 (NYSEARCA:DIA) brethren bears out just how horrible IBM has been in recent years.
There are few charts in the financial world that look worse than that (except maybe crude oil (NYSEARCA:USO)), and it's because the game IBM has been playing for many years isn't working. Investors have figured out this is a dying business and that the buybacks aren't enough to float the ship any longer. IBM is on pace to produce roughly the same amount of revenue it did in 2004; consider that one for a moment in the context of the chart above.
Though I sound quite negative, I don't have anything personally against IBM; I just loathe the fact that a company's management has been focused on engineering EPS growth rather than focusing on its people and its business for so many years. The roadmaps that were to double EPS through little actual production but lots of financial games built a house of cards with IBM that has subsequently come crashing down. I honestly don't see what Buffett sees in IBM; I just see a business that is shrinking, and clueless management. And yes, I know he's the best investor of all time, but he's wrong sometimes too.
Forecasting a fair value on IBM is difficult, but I do know that it's lower than $157. I think we'll continue to see EPS estimates fall as it becomes more and more apparent that the business is shrinking and that the substantial buybacks will have to slow, exacerbating the decline in nominal earnings. This story is just beginning to play out, so I'd have a fair value price on IBM of about $120 right now. With no book value and a shrinking business, it's tough to want to put any price on this thing, but $120 is fair for where I see earnings going. I don't see IBM's lack of direction changing anytime soon, because it doesn't seem to matter who's running the place; we get the same thing year after year. And thus, down come the EPS estimates.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020614:15
SYMBOL = GE
NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- General Electric (GE - Get Report) shares are up 0.45% to $24.61 in trading on Friday after the company declared a 23 cent per share dividend on the company's outstanding common stock.
The dividend is payable April 27 to shareholders of record on February 23.
Earlier this week the company's Intelligent Platform division secured a $100 million order from General Dynamics UK  (GD) to supply embedded computing subsystems for the British army's SCOUT Specialist Vehicle platforms.
STOCKS TO BUY: TheStreet Quant Ratings has identified a handful of stocks that can potentially TRIPLE in the next 12 months. Learn more.
TheStreet Ratings team rates GENERAL ELECTRIC CO as a Buy with a ratings score of B. TheStreet Ratings Team has this to say about their recommendation:
"We rate GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (GE) a BUY. This is driven by some important positives, which we believe should have a greater impact than any weaknesses, and should give investors a better performance opportunity than most stocks we cover. The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its revenue growth, growth in earnings per share, compelling growth in net income, attractive valuation levels and expanding profit margins. We feel these strengths outweigh the fact that the company has had generally high debt management risk by most measures that we evaluated."
Highlights from the analysis by TheStreet Ratings Team goes as follows:
The revenue growth came in higher than the industry average of 5.6%. Since the same quarter one year prior, revenues slightly increased by 6.8%. This growth in revenue appears to have trickled down to the company's bottom line, improving the earnings per share.
GENERAL ELECTRIC CO has improved earnings per share by 6.1% in the most recent quarter compared to the same quarter a year ago. The company has demonstrated a pattern of positive earnings per share growth over the past two years. We feel that this trend should continue. During the past fiscal year, GENERAL ELECTRIC CO increased its bottom line by earning $1.50 versus $1.47 in the prior year. This year, the market expects an improvement in earnings ($1.73 versus $1.50).
The net income growth from the same quarter one year ago has significantly exceeded that of the S&P 500 and the Industrial Conglomerates industry. The net income increased by 60.7% when compared to the same quarter one year prior, rising from $3,206.00 million to $5,152.00 million.
43.71% is the gross profit margin for GENERAL ELECTRIC CO which we consider to be strong. It has increased from the same quarter the previous year. Regardless of the strong results of the gross profit margin, the net profit margin of 12.26% trails the industry average.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020711:39
SYMBOL = F
Ford had a record sales month in China in January while General Motors saw sales decline to start the year.
Ford sales of 112,599 vehicles for last month is an increase of 19% from a year ago for a company that has been aggressively expanding its presence as it tries to catch up with the big players such as GM and Volkswagen.
GM and its Chinese joint ventures sold 339,781 vehicles in China in January, down 2.4% from 2014, according to Reuters. GM sales rose almost 32% in December and were up 12% for the full year in 2014.
Ford said its passenger car joint venture Changan Ford Automobile had its best January with 83,225 vehicles sold, up 19%.
For the Ford brand, the new Escort, Mondeo and Focus, all built in China, contributed to the January record results.
Imported vehicles including the Ford Edge, Focus ST, Explorer, Fiesta ST and Mustang increased sales by 18%. Mustang sales kicked off last month.
Ford started importing and selling the Lincoln brand in China in the latter part of 2014, and the few dealerships in business are reporting strong results for the luxury brand, Ford officials say.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020616:17
SYMBOL = AAPL
Apple AAPL -0.84%’s shares are down about 1% to $119 while the overall stock market is down about 0.4%. There is an article on 9to5Mac that has data from KGI Research’s Apple analyst Ming Chi-Kuo (who is quite good) that iPad sales could decrease 30% year over year in calendar 2015 to between 44-45 million. (Note that I own Apple shares).
With the current screen sizes and weights my model is close to Chi-Kuo’s
In calendar 2014 Apple sold 63.4 million iPads, which was a decline of 15% from 2013’s 74.2 million and every quarter had a decline in shipments vs. the prior year’s quarter. Also three of the four quarters had lower quarter over quarter growth rates than the prior year.
Starting with the March quarter the past two years Apple’s iPads quarter over quarter unit decline has been 21% and 27%, respectively, when adjusted for channel inventory (I am not projecting a change in channel inventory in the March quarter or future quarters). Chi-Kuo is expecting only 10.1 million iPads to be sold in the March quarter, which would be a 50% quarterly decline this year and a 42% yearly decline.
I’m not expecting that big of a drop but do believe iPad sales could fall to 12 million or down 41% from the December quarter. This would make the year over year decline 31% year over year (again adjusted for channel inventory changes).
Ming-Kuo is projecting Apple’s June quarter iPad sales of only 7 to 8 million units, which would make his first half number essentially 17-18 million. When I run the numbers that looks too harsh to me and I project 9.5 million in the June quarter for a total of 21.5 million in the first half.
For the year he is expecting iPad sales of 44 to 45 million units, which would be a drop of 30% year over year. He also isn’t expecting a new 12.9 inch iPad to have a significant impact anytime soon. To get to his full year number he must be estimating a strong comeback to about 26 to 28 million units in the second half.
I am only coming up with 23 million in my Apple model for the second half so it may be his comments on the larger screen iPads only pertain to the first half of the year. I can see iPad units decreasing to 44.5 million units for the year, a decline of 30% year over year, which is the same as Chi-Kuo’s.
iPad Mini’s being impacted by the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus
One of the reasons for the iPad’s projected weakness is Apple’s larger screen iPhone 6’s and 6 Plus’s. As can be seen in Fiksu’s chart below the bottom line is the Mini 3, which is having the slowest uptake of any iPad Mini. And the Air 2 (the third line from the bottom) is significantly trailing the original Air.
Two positives to keep in mind
The first positive (which is a weak one) is that comparisons from the previous quarters do get easier since negative year over year growth started in the March 2014 quarter. However again with the larger screen iPhones now available it does feel like there should be substantial year over year declines this year unless Apple is able to bring a new iPad to market that really gets users excited. And while the IBM IBM -0.06% partnership is worthwhile I don’t think it moves the financial needle very much.
The second positive to keep in mind is that the iPad’s revenue as a percent of Apple’s total revenue has declined from 19.9% in calendar 2012 to 18.8% in 2913 and 13.9% in 2014. At 44.5 million units I’m forecasting the iPad to contribute 8.1% of total revenue. The company has been able to do very well (due to the iPhone) while it has weathered the iPad weakness.
When you look back at the iPod it was 34.6% of Apple’s total revenue in fiscal 2007, 28.2% in 2008 and continued to decline over the next six years to 6.9% in 2011 and 1.3% in 2014. While I don’t expect the iPad to suffer a similar fate it does show that Apple has thrived as it cannibalizes its own products.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020706:10
SYMBOL = KO
NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Global beverage giant Coca-Cola (KO - Get Report) will report fourth-quarter and full-year results Tuesday before the opening bell. With just 2% stock gains in 2014 compared with 14% gains for rival PepsiCo (PEP - Get Report) , Coca-Cola shareholders must be wondering why they hang around.
Coca-Cola shares are down 1.37% for the year to date, trailing the broader averages, which have traded flat. By contrast PepsiCo shares are up 2.5%. But this is no taste test. Coke is going flat and needs something to put the fizz back.
In the meantime, there are other places for your investment dollars, specifically two companies in which Coke has bought major stakes -- Monster Beverage (MNST) and Keurig Green Mountain Coffee (GMCR) .
Must Read: 16 Rock-Solid Dividend Stocks With 50 Years of Increasing Dividends and Market-Beating Performance
Coke, Atlanta, spent $2.15 billion for a 17% stake in Monster Beverage (MNST)  last year. This was done after it bought an additional 6% stake in Keurig Green Mountain (GMCR) last May, upping its holdings to 16% and becoming Keurig Green Mountain's top owner.
Those moves have paid off. Keurig Green Mountain shares soared in 2014 more than 82%, while Monster stock has added more than 60% gains. Unfortunately, beyond Coca-Cola's quarterly dividend yield of 2.93%, investors didn't see any of those gains. While Coca-Cola stock is languishing in negative territory in 2015, Monster Beverage shares are up 8% for the year to date, beating the broader averages. 
So it makes more sense for Coca-Cola investors to buy shares in Monster.
Besides, Coca-Cola shares are not cheap. They trade at 23 times trailing earnings, which is three points higher than the average price to earnings ratio of companies in the S&P 500 (SPX) . it is also three points higher than PowerShares Dynamic Food & Beverage Portfolio (PBJ) , which includes PepsiCo, Monster Beverage and Dr Pepper Snapple (DPS) . 
Dr. Pepper Snapple's shares are up nearly 9% for the year to date with a P/E ratio almost two points lower than Coca-Cola. Coke's higher P/E implies Wall Street still expects the company to turn things around and outgrow its peers -- something it hasn't been able to do in almost two years.
For the quarter ending in December, Coke is expected to report 42 cents per share in earnings on revenue of $10.76 billion, representing year-over-year declines of 8% and 2.5%, respectively. For the full-year, earnings are projected to decline 2% year over year to $2.03 per share, while revenue is expected to be $45.9 billion, down 2% year over year.
Must Read: 13 IPOs You Wish You Didn't Buy in 2014 (and Killed Your Portfolio)
Follow @Richard_WSPB
TheStreet Ratings team rates COCA-COLA CO as a Buy with a ratings score of B+. TheStreet Ratings Team has this to say about their recommendation: 
"We rate COCA-COLA CO (KO) a BUY. This is driven by several positive factors, which we believe should have a greater impact than any weaknesses, and should give investors a better performance opportunity than most stocks we cover. The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its expanding profit margins, notable return on equity and increase in stock price during the past year. We feel these strengths outweigh the fact that the company has had sub par growth in net income." 
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014101320:12
SYMBOL = ADBE
Companies that throw off lots of free cash flow have tremendous financial flexibility.
We think Adobe is a cash machine.
Let's evaluate the company through the lens of a discounted cash-flow model.
The intrinsic value of a company is based on its future free cash flow stream. After discounting a company's future free cash flow stream and summing each annual cash flow, one adds (or subtracts) the firm's net cash (or net debt) position to that sum. The result is equity value and compares directly to a firm's market capitalization (price). Dividing each of these measures by shares outstanding gets to intrinsic value per share and the company's share price, respectively. Comparing the company's intrinsic value to its share price determines whether a company is undervalued or overvalued. Let's do this process for Adobe (NASDAQ:ADBE).
Adobe Systems' Investment Considerations
Investment Highlights
• Adobe Systems' business quality (an evaluation of our ValueCreation and ValueRisk ratings) ranks among the best of the firms in our coverage universe. The firm has been generating economic value for shareholders with relatively stable operating results for the past few years, a combination we view very positively. Adobe has one of the highest rated Economic Castles in our coverage universe.
• Adobe is one of the largest software companies in the world. The firm's flagship offering in its digital media business is Adobe Creative Cloud, which allows customers to download the latest version of Adobe Creative Suite products (like Photoshop). The firm also continues to focus on digital marketing solutions.
• Adobe Systems has an excellent combination of strong free cash flow generation and low financial leverage. We expect the firm's free cash flow margin to average about 28.5% in coming years. Total debt-to-EBITDA was 2 last year, while debt-to-book capitalization stood at 18.4%.
• Adobe continues to gain significant traction with respect to Creative Cloud subscriptions. Growing from just 195k in the third quarter of 2012, Adobe anticipates exponential growth in coming quarters and will round out fiscal 2014 with 2.8 million-plus paying subscribers. We love this recurring, subscription-based model.
• Adobe Marketing Cloud is quickly becoming a favorite of Chief Marketing Officers as digital marketing bookings continue to expand at a nice clip.
• Adobe registers a Valuentum Buying Index rating of a 6.
Business Quality
Economic Profit Analysis
The best measure of a firm's ability to create value for shareholders is expressed by comparing its return on invested capital with its weighted average cost of capital. The gap or difference between ROIC and WACC is called the firm's economic profit spread. Adobe Systems' 3-year historical return on invested capital (without goodwill) is 201.6%, which is significantly above the estimate of its cost of capital of 10.6%. As such, we assign the firm a ValueCreation rating of EXCELLENT. In the chart below, we show the probable path of ROIC in the years ahead based on the estimated volatility of key drivers behind the measure. The solid gray line reflects the most likely outcome, in our opinion, and represents the scenario that results in our fair value estimate.
Firms that generate a free cash flow margin (free cash flow divided by total revenue) above 5% are usually considered cash cows. Adobe Systems' free cash flow margin has averaged about 34.3% during the past 3 years. As such, we think the firm's cash flow generation is relatively STRONG. The free cash flow measure shown above is derived by taking cash flow from operations less capital expenditures and differs from enterprise free cash flow (FCFF), which we use in deriving our fair value estimate for the company. At Adobe Systems, cash flow from operations decreased about 52% from levels registered two years ago, while capital expenditures fell about 10% over the same time period.
Valuation Analysis
Our discounted cash flow model indicates that Adobe Systems' shares are worth between $52-$78 each. Shares are trading at roughly $63 each at the time of this writing.
All value is based on the future free cash flow stream. The future will always be unpredictable to a degree. The larger the unpredictability of a company's future free cash flow stream, the bigger the margin of safety around a company's fair value. The margin of safety around our fair value estimate is driven by the firm's LOW ValueRisk rating, which is derived from the historical volatility of key valuation drivers.
The estimated fair value of $65 per share represents a price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio of about 115.1 times last year's earnings and an implied EV/EBITDA multiple of about 41.4 times last year's EBITDA. Our model reflects a compound annual revenue growth rate of 13.3% during the next five years, a pace that is higher than the firm's 3-year historical compound annual growth rate of 2.2%. Our model reflects a 5-year projected average operating margin of 28.3%, which is above Adobe Systems' trailing 3-year average.
Beyond year 5, we assume free cash flow will grow at an annual rate of 5.2% for the next 15 years and 3% in perpetuity. For Adobe Systems, we use a 10.6% weighted average cost of capital to discount future free cash flows.
We understand the critical importance of assessing firms on a relative value basis, versus both their industry and peers. Many institutional money managers - those who drive stock prices - pay attention to a company's price-to-earnings ratio and price-earnings-to-growth ratio in making buy/sell decisions. With this in mind, we have included a forward-looking relative value assessment in our process to further augment our rigorous discounted cash flow process. If a company is undervalued on both a price-to-earnings ratio and a price-earnings-to-growth ratio versus industry peers, we would consider the firm to be attractive from a relative value standpoint. For relative valuation purposes, we compare Adobe to peers Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) and Oracle (NYSE:ORCL).
Margin of Safety Analysis
Our discounted cash flow process values each firm on the basis of the present value of all future free cash flows. Although we estimate the firm's fair value at about $65 per share, every company has a range of probable fair values that's created by the uncertainty of key valuation drivers (like future revenue or earnings, for example). After all, if the future was known with certainty, we wouldn't see much volatility in the markets as stocks would trade precisely at their known fair values. Our ValueRisk rating sets the margin of safety or the fair value range we assign to each stock. In the graph below, we show this probable range of fair values for Adobe Systems. We think the firm is attractive below $52 per share (the green line), but quite expensive above $78 per share (the red line). The prices that fall along the yellow line, which includes our fair value estimate, represent a reasonable valuation for the firm, in our opinion.
Future Path of Fair Value
We estimate Adobe Systems' fair value at this point in time to be about $65 per share. As time passes, however, companies generate cash flow and pay out cash to shareholders in the form of dividends. The chart below compares the firm's current share price with the path of Adobe Systems' expected equity value per share over the next three years, assuming our long-term projections prove accurate. The range between the resulting downside fair value and upside fair value in Year 3 represents our best estimate of the value of the firm's shares three years hence. This range of potential outcomes also is subject to change over time should our views on the firm's future cash flow potential change. The expected fair value of $88 per share in Year 3 represents our existing fair value per share of $65 increased at an annual rate of the firm's cost of equity less its dividend yield. The upside and downside ranges are derived in the same way, but from the upper and lower bounds of our fair value estimate range.
Pro Forma Financial Statements
In the spirit of transparency, we show the latest study of the Valuentum Buying Index here. Past results are not a guarantee of future performance. 
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014101317:44
SYMBOL = TTM
JLR reported September sale +7% y/y driven by strong demand for LR (RR and RR Sports).
Asia, in particular China, remains a key growth market while Europe and US lagged.
Continue to like TTM given its exposure to Asia and JLR asset. Best positioned among Indian auto OEMs for global expansion.
Jaguar Land Rover reported its global September sale of 46.3k vehicles (+7% y/y) driven mostly by strong LR deliveries at 37.8k vehicles (+9% y/y). Range Rover and RR Sports continue to be the popular models. Jaguar's growth was flat in the month, only +1% y/y to 8.5k. YTD JLR volume is up +12% y/y to 351k units. In terms of geography, China is once again the leading market with +25% y/y growth in volume and I expect momentum in China to continue on the back of new model launches and China production expected to commence this year. Tata Motor (NYSE:TTM) continues to be my favorite Indian auto name and I reiterate my bullish view on the stock.
Asia and Range Rover driving sales forward
LR sales was up +9% y/y led by strong RR Sports sale (+33% y/y) and RR (+48% y/y). The Freelander model saw a +10% y/y volume growth while the smaller model such as Discovery and Evoque saw volume decline -7.4% and -5%, respectively.
China continues to be JLR's key market with September volume +25% y/y, of which LR volume +26% and Jaguar volume +18%. The strength of Jaguar in China outpaces that of the worldwide sale growth of +1%.
Overall, Asia-ex China volume +26% y/y, which is contrary to the other markets such as the UK (+9%), Europe (-9%) and North America (-9%), suggesting that Asia will likely to be the driver of JLR's global demand in the near-term. Although it is worth noting that North America sale was weak due to lower incentive and allocating models to more profitable markets. (See: Jaguar Land Rover September Sale: Lower Sale But The Right Strategy)
Upcoming catalyst
I expect JLR to continue its robust growth profile on the back of strong demands from Asia, in particular China. The entry into high volume segments, local production in China and the strength from key LR models (RR and RR sports) are supportive of JLR's near-term outlook. Reiterate my positive on TTM. The stock is attractively priced at 9x forward earnings and has the best global growth profile among the Indian auto names.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014101317:37
SYMBOL = NFLX
Netflix is likely to see strong topline growth driven by domestic and international subscriber additions.
Margin growth may slow down as a result of incremental investment in the international segment.
Additional costs due to interconnection fee agreements with Internet service providers may have a small impact on profitability as well.
Netflix (NASDAQ:NFLX) will report its Q3 2014 earnings on October 15th and we expect the company to report strong revenue growth. Key drivers will include new subscriber additions and the mild impact of price increases it implemented earlier this year, in our view. On the flip side, margin growth may slow down as a result of incremental investment in the international segment. Additional costs due to interconnection fee agreements with Internet service providers may have a small impact on profitability as well. Considering these factors, we believe that investors should exercise some degree of caution while assessing Netflix as an investment. Let's take a look in detail regarding what to expect from the upcoming earnings.
Our price estimate for Netflix stands at $315, implying a discount of about 30% to the market.
Revenues Will Find Support From Domestic And International Growth
Netflix is likely to see strong topline growth driven by domestic and international subscriber additions.
Last quarter saw greater than usual impact of seasonality on Netflix's subscriber growth. Although the company gained 0.57 million domestic streaming subscribers compared to its initial expectation of 0.52 million, there was a sharp sequential as well as a slight year-over-year decline in the figure due to seasonality. Since Netflix does not report its churn rate, it is difficult to assess whether this decline was primarily due to the higher impact of seasonality or a slow down in gross subscriber additions. We believe that it was a combination of both as Netflix is likely to have cycled through a majority of broadband houses in the U.S. The impact of seasonality will fade away in the third quarter and we expect strong sequential growth as well as a slight year-over-year increase. The latter will be driven by Netflix's investment in several original series focused on kids during the third quarter. The mid point of guidance suggests that the company added somewhere around 1.33 million domestic streaming subscribers during the quarter.
International business is another story. The market potential is huge in Europe and Latin America, and Netflix has just begun to tap into it. The company launched its services in some additional countries in Europe in mid September, and the impact will be better visibility in its fourth quarter results. With this expansion, Netflix is now present across 12 countries in Europe with a combined population of close to 270 million. If we include Canada, Netflix's international market potential rivals that in the U.S. This does not include Latin America, which we believe is likely to remain a small contributor to Netflix's international revenues in coming years. Besides leveraging its brand, the company is relying on its tie-ups with European network providers. It recently struck deals with the biggest telecom operators in France, which will make Netflix available on set-top boxes of customers, thus giving the company instant access to around 12 million users.
Margin Growth May Slow Down Slightly
Given Netflix's investment in content related to its launch in additional countries in Europe, its spending on original series and its recent agreements with Internet Service Providers for interconnection fees, we believe that margin expansion may lose some steam. International operations are still unprofitable and it may take a while for Netflix's revenues to cover the incremental costs of expansion. That's not necessarily disturbing as long-term benefits from this investment far outweigh the short term margin pressure. However, spending on original content and newly added expenses related to interconnection fees must be carefully scrutinized.
Netflix's total content obligations stood at a massive $7.25 billion at the end of 2013, amounting to 166% of annual revenues. Considering the figure at the end of first half of 2014, and the fact that Netflix would have invested disproportionately more in international markets in the third quarter, we believe that these obligations could reach as high as $8.5 billion by the end of 2014 or 158% of expected 2014 revenues. While this suggests that revenues are growing faster than content obligations, the decline in the percentage figure is not as much as one would hope for. If we see the absolute deficit (obligations minus annual revenues), we see the figure growing from $2.89 billion at the end of 2013 to $3.1 billion at the end of 2014.
Additionally, Netflix's recent interconnect fee agreements with service providers raise an alarm. The company has reported notable improvement in its streaming speed and user experience after these agreements, but the speeds are still not as good as in several European countries. This suggests that domestic ISPs may charge further for speed improvement, and this could weigh on Netflix's margins going forward.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014101317:14
SYMBOL = LNVGY
Lenovo will report Q2 earnings on Nov. 6.
We could see near-term volatility from the Shanghai-Hong Kong Connect and potential amortization of intangibles.
The company's long-term growth is intact. I continue to like Lenovo for its PC consolidation and smartphone business.
Lenovo (OTCPK:LNVGY) will announce its Q2 FY 2015 financial results on Nov. 6. Bloomberg consensus expects $0.025 earnings per share and $11.2 billion in revenue. I expect the stock could see some volatility until early next year when the Motorola and x86 server deals are finalized. One of the reasons behind this volatility could be the $300 million to $400 million in amortization expense from the two acquisitions, which the consensus will have to incorporate in the future.
However, I believe that the non-GAAP measure of adjusted EPS is a more accurate measure of Lenovo's EPS in that amortization expense is largely a non-cash expense. At a 17.5x FY 2015 P/E ratio, Lenovo looks attractively priced given its growth potential. I would buy Lenovo ahead of the results despite the near-term volatility as 1) the company will continue to be a key consolidator of the PC market, 2) the smartphone and tablet division is seeing strong growth in emerging markets, and 3) the recent acquisition of Motorola allows Lenovo to seek a new growth plan in the U.S. The risk to my thesis is if Lenovo's smartphone business fails to gain acceptance among U.S. consumers. This could result in more writedowns of Motorola goodwill in the future, but I do not see this as a near-term risk.
Lenovo's share price has risen sharply over the past several months because investors are optimistic about the "Shanghai-Hong Kong Connect" that allows mainland investors to invest in Hong Kong stocks. This could create some volatility in the stock in that a degree of excitement has already been priced in to the current share price. After the Shanghai-Hong Kong Connect begins to commence later this year, we could see a near-term pullback due to the sell-on-the-news effect. I believe this could present an attractive buying opportunity for investors.
The second source of volatility is the expected amortization expense from the two acquisitions. The combined value of the IBM (NYSE:IBM) and Motorola deal is $5.2 billion. Assuming 30%-50% in intangible assets, I derive an annual amortization expense of $300 million to $400 million per year. The consensus could gradually factor this expense into their forecast, but I believe a more accurate way of looking at Lenovo's profitability is based on an adjusted operating profit that excludes the amortization expense given that it is a non-cash item.
Despite the near-term volatility, I continue to like Lenovo because it will benefit from the consolidation of the PC industry. In addition, I like the company's smartphone strategy, which is becoming popular in Southeast Asian nations. According to latest figure from IDC, Lenovo once again lead the global PC shipment with 20% market share, outperforming HP (NYSE:HPQ), Dell and Acer Group. Lenovo can benefit from the consolidation trend because it has a strong distribution network and affordable devices. I expect Lenovo to continue take market share away from the smaller PC makers.
We could also see a strong smartphone shipment from Lenovo. The company launched its VIBE series, which includes the X2 and Z2 smartphones that are gradually gaining status as high-end devices in China. Based on my prior experience in technology sales, feedback from clients is that Lenovo offers compelling value vs. foreign smartphone makers such as Samsung (OTC:SSNLF) and HTC. With the addition of Motorola, we could see Lenovo making its way into North America by utilizing Motorola's relationships with carriers in the U.S.
While we could see near-term volatility, Lenovo's long-term growth story remains intact. The current valuation of 17.5x P/E ratio is cheap when compared with its 20%+ earnings growth.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014101314:52
SYMBOL = HPQ
HPQ splitting in 2015.
Creating PC and printer business, and hardware and software and services company.
Might aid beginning of 3D printing in the company.
Other M&A opportunities possible.
Hewlett-Packard Company (NYSE:HPQ) announced on October 6 that it would be splitting into two companies. One portion of the company will be devoted to PCs and printers, and the other portion will be focused on hardware and software production and services. Meg Whitman will become CEO of the hardware/software producer which will be known as Hewlett-Packard Enterprise. The PC and printer business will become HP Inc. and will be headed by Dion Weisler, the executive vice president of the PC and printer side of HPQ. The split will create two roughly equally sized companies based on Q3 2014 revenues of $27.5 billion for the company, close to $14 billion in revenue for each segment.
The split creates interesting possibilities for some of the projects at HPQ. Meg Whitman has been planning on formulating a 3D printing division at HPQ. Getting into 3D printing would mesh well with the HPQ current 2D printing model of supplying both printers and printing materials. The printing division brought in $5.6 billion over the last quarter, roughly 20% of the company's revenue. From a management standpoint, 3D printing looks like a natural extension of 2D printing that HPQ could use to supply printers and materials. In 2010, HPQ actually had an agreement with Stratasys Ltd. (NASDAQ:SSYS) to have HP-licensed 3D printers manufactured. These nearly $18,000 printers weren't exactly what the masses wanted, and the partnership dissolved in 2012. Later in 2013 it was speculated that HPQ would again enter the 3D printing arena, with a new commitment that could shake up the 3D printing world. Meg Whitman even announced in March of 2014 that the company would outline the 3D printing blueprint in June of 2014, and reveal new technology. However June has since come and gone without any such 3D printing announcement from HPQ. Martin Fink, the director of HP labs, later stated that HPQ would instead make a technology announcement on October 31 of 2014, the end of their fiscal year. It might seem there are some internal difficulties concerning the HPQ development of 3D printing, or that HPQ is being very secretive about progress.
Since August of 2013 HPQ has been advertising for a "robotics scientist" to work on a 3D printer. This scientist will need to have experience working with robotics, to head up the production of prototype robotic platforms that could be used to make 3D printed formations on nonplanar surfaces. This looks like HPQ, a company with little previous developmental 3D printing experience, has been working from the ground up to make their own 3D printer. Having the unveiling seemingly moved back from June to October of 2014 could indicate that they are either trying to make a good prototype, or that they are failing and have nothing. With all the hype surrounding 3D printing, a failure by HPQ could be deeply embarrassing. The newly announced split of the company into an enterprise segment and a PC/printing segment would place a 3D printing segment with the printing portion. The split would also allow the CEO of the enterprise segment to distance from the apparent difficulty of the HPQ entrance into 3D printing.
Instead of building a 3D printing division from scratch, HPQ has other options. It could simply acquire one of the existing 3D printing companies. 3D Systems (NYSE:DDD) might be a potential target due to its large range of printing capabilities, particularly its growing metal printing division. SSYS would also be another prime target, both because of its dominance in the current consumer 3D printing market with its MakerBot segment, as well as its previous 3D printing relationship with HPQ. An acquisition would allow HPQ to enter the 3D printing market with competence and without need to build a program from the ground up.
The split of the company into enterprise and PC/printer companies also serves a larger purpose. Meg Whitman is brilliant. Failing parts of the HPQ fold could have been spun off back in 2011 around the time when she had become CEO. This could have tarnished her reputation as CEO back then. Instead she has led the stock to the highest it's been since she became CEO.
This stock price increase has offset the difficulty of laying off what it originally projected to be 27,000 workers in 2012, but has now doubled to 55,000 with the announcement of the split. Reorganization has been the hallmark of Meg Whitman's time as HPQ CEO, and shows her commitment to helping the company become more competitive. Since the 2008 acquisition of Electronic Data Systems for nearly $14 billion that doubled the size of the company to roughly 400,000 workers, HPQ has been trying to reorganize. The part of the business made from EDS is known as the enterprise portion of HPQ and will be spun off into Hewlett-Packard Enterprise. The spinoff could even allow an M&A deal between HP Enterprise and another company. HPQ will initiate a tax-free spinoff, which would prevent acquisition for at least two years. The time buffer notwithstanding, the act of splitting the company will increase options for M&A deals. Talks with EMC Corp. (NYSE:EMC) geared towards acquisition that recently stalled could be revived after the news of the split. The new HP Enterprise could merge with or acquire EMC to create an even larger enterprise-type company, while the PC/printer branch HP Inc. could be purchased or merge with another PC producer such as Acer Inc. or Lenovo Group Ltd. (OTCPK:LNVGY).
Investors in HPQ should take note of Meg Whitman's commitment to the company. The company should be looked at as a long term prospect. However, after the split, it might be wise for investors to sell shares in the HP Inc. portion that is committed to PCs and printers to invest the proceeds in the HP Enterprise that will remain under the control of Whitman. HP Inc. controls the suffering PC business that has been shrinking over the past couple of years as computers are shifting toward mobile platforms. Albeit the printing part of HP Inc. is tantalizing, especially if HP Inc. or HPQ pulls off an impressive entrance to the 3D printing market. It would be worth noting though that even if HP Inc. were to become a 3D printing provider, the 3D printing market might not be large enough to give enough revenue. As noted above, the $5.6 billion brought in by the printing segment dwarfs the entire 3D printing industry, which was about $2.5 billion in 2013. If HPQ were to purchase SSYS in its entirety, it would gain about 20% of that since SSYS produced $480 million of revenue in 2013. If the 3D printing industry continues its projected 45% compound annual growth rate, then by 2018 the industry would be $16.2 billion and 20% of that would be worth $3.2 billion. The entrance into the 3D printing arena could prove lucrative for HPQ or spinoffs, but only if a sizeable portion of the market share is obtained and maintained over the long term. Since the 3D printing entrance depends on a few variables, investors banking on the HPQ 3D printing debut might want to wait until the HPQ technology announcement on October 31 before buying shares. HPQ is a company in transition, but has been working things out. Transitions for some companies can take a while, and investors should keep that in mind. Those who have stuck with Meg Whitman's HPQ stock for the past couple years should continue to trust in her leadership, holding HPQ and later on HP Enterprise shares for the long term.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014101313:40
SYMBOL = CAT
Iron ore miners will need to increase automation for reducing production cost as iron ore prices are at a five year low.
BHP Billiton and Fortescue Metals Group are trailing Caterpillar's driverless trucks. Caterpillar can target other iron ore miners considering automation.
Caterpillar's major competitor in this segment is Komatsu.
Iron ore prices have plummeted more than 40% this year due to reduction in Chinese imports and increase in supply. Goldman Sachs (NYSE: GS) forecasts iron ore prices at $80 per tonne in 2015, $79 per tonne in 2016, and $78 per tonne in 2017. This has led the iron ore miners to maintain profits by cutting costs. Caterpillar (NYSE: CAT) has been supplying driverless trucks to Australian miners BHP Billiton (NYSE:BHP) and Fortescue Metals Group (OTCQX:FSUGY).
BHP Billiton is currently trialing nine driverless trucks at its Jimblebar mine in Australia. The company plans to cut is production cost excluding freight and royalties, from $27.50 per tonne in fiscal year (or FY) 2014 to less than $20 per tonne by cutting jobs, reducing cost and increasing automation. BHP Billiton expects 11% of its 245 million tonnes (or Mt) production to be hauled by automated trucks in FY 2015. The company expects that 40% of its production will be hauled autonomously till FY 2019.
In mining industry, a truck driver's wage is about $105,237 (AUD120,000) per annum. A dumptruck requires four drivers to keep it running in a 24 hours a day on fly-in, fly-out shifts. The cost of staffing a driver enabled truck is about $876,980 (AUD1 million) per year. I expect that BHP Billiton will deploy more driverless trucks to cut its production cost. Caterpillar could get more orders for driverless trucks from BHP Billiton in the future as the miner plans to be a low cost producer.
Fortescue operates the Christmas Creek, Cloud break, Firetail, and Kings Valley mine in Australia. The company has been operating eight Caterpillar 793F CMD trucks at its Kings Valley mine in Australia. Fortescue plans to deploy a total of 45 autonomous trucks at this mine in the next few years. The break even cost for Fortescue Metals is between $70 and $80 per tonne. The company with a net debt of $7.2 billion will need further automation to make profit at lower iron ore prices.
Prospective customer
Caterpillar can target other iron ore miners in Australia that aim to cut production cost. Roy Hill is an iron ore project in Pilbara region of Australia with a capacity of a 55 Mt per annum. The project is a joint venture between Hancock Prospecting, POSCO (NYSE:PKX), China Steel Corporation (OTC:CISEY), and Marubeni (OTCPK:MARUY). The project will start delivering in second half of 2015. Lower iron ore prices will increase the likelihood of employing automation to make the project economically viable.
The project operators can remotely control autonomous equipments including drills and trucks from its Perth office in Australia. Last month, Roy Hill's chief financial officer Garry Korte made the following statement about automation:
"At the moment our mining fleet is manned but clearly we will be expanding that mining operation and the volumes will increase. So we have plenty of opportunity to introduce automation going forward and there certainly is an intention to do that."
Competition
Komatsu (OTCPK:KMTUY) is Caterpillar's major competitor in the driverless trucks segment. Rio Tinto (NYSE: RIO) operates 53 autonomous trucks provided by Komatsu across its iron ore mines in Pilbara region of Australia. The trucks are operational at its West Angelas, Yandicoogina, Nammuldi and Hope Downs mine. Each autonomous truck is capable of shifting 290 tonnes per load.
Rio Tinto plans to increase its fleet of driverless trucks by adding 150 930E FrontRunner trucks , which will be supplied by Komatsu over the next four years. The FrontRunner truck will have a diesel electric drive and is capable of carrying 300 tonnes of ore. Komatsu partnered with General Electric (NYSE: GE) to produce the truck engine and next generation mining equipments.
Hitachi plans to provide autonomous equipment to the surface mining industry by 2017. Last year, Stanwell Corporation started a three year trial of the autonomous haulage system provided by Hitachi at its Meandu coal mine.
Lower iron ore prices will lead to further production cost reduction by iron ore miners through automation. Caterpillar can target this opportunity through driverless trucks. The company's stock last closed at $93.13, a discount of 16.45% compared to its 52 week high of $111.46. The stock looks attractive to buy with a dividend yield of 3.01%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015011618:05
SYMBOL = T
AT&T Inc said it expected to record charges of about $10 billion for the fourth quarter but the non-cash losses would not affect operating results.
The biggest U.S. telephone company said it would take a charge of $7.9 billion related to actuarial gains and losses on pension and post-employment benefit plans.
Operating results will also include a $2.1 billion charge, as the company determined that copper assets would not be necessary to support future network activity.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201501117:50
SYMBOL = GS
Reuters) - Goldman Sachs Group Inc (GS.N) reported a 7 percent drop in fourth-quarter profit as sharp market moves in December hit its bond-trading business.
Fixed-income trading, long a strength for the bank, came under pressure last year due to stricter capital rules in the aftermath of the financial crisis and relatively calm markets that discouraged clients from trading.
Just when it seemed things were picking up, erratic moves in the market last month, caused by factors ranging from plunging oil prices to worries about Greece, spooked investors again.
"Volatility in absence of liquidity" hurt Goldman and other big banks in the quarter, Harvey Schwartz, Goldman's chief financial officer, said on a call with analysts.
Goldman's revenue from trading fixed-income securities, currencies and commodities (FICC) fell 19 percent, excluding gains from repayment of debt and the sale of most of its European insurance business in 2013.
Overall, FICC revenue fell 29 percent to $1.22 billion, mainly due to a weaker performance in mortgages and credit products such as corporate bonds. This was partially offset by higher revenue from trading commodities and currencies.
A writedown on a loan to troubled Portuguese lender Banco Espirito Santo also hurt FICC trading, as Reuters reported earlier this week.
The business, which once contributed about 40 percent of Goldman's revenue, has been on a decline since 2009 as new rules also discourage banks from trading on their own account and it accounted for only about 16 percent of revenue in the quarter.
JPMorgan Chase & Co's (JPM.N) FICC revenue fell 14 percent in the period, Citigroup Inc's (C.N) 16 percent and Bank of America Corp's (BAC.N) 30 percent.
Goldman's shares were down less than 1 percent at $177.53 in midday trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Schwartz deflected a question about whether Goldman should break itself up, saying the bank was not as large or as complex as universal banking rivals facing the same question.
The issue of whether banks that are "too big to fail" should be broken up was recently mooted in a report on JPMorgan by Goldman Sachs analysts.
Goldman's investment banking business also had a weaker quarter, with revenue falling 16 percent to $1.44 billion due to lower revenue from both equity and debt underwriting.
Overall net income fell to $2.17 billion, or $4.38 per share, from $2.33 billion, or 4.60 per share, a year earlier. Analysts had expected earnings of $4.32 per share, according to Thomson Reuters.
Of the big U.S. banks reporting this week, only Wells Fargo & Co (WFC.N) managed a rise in profit, largely because it is more focused on retail and commercial banking.
Goldman used 36.8 percent of its revenue for compensation last year, down slightly from 2013. Average annual compensation per employee fell to $373,265 from $376,507 as the number of employees rose slightly.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015011018:26
SYMBOL = GM
(Reuters) - General Motors Co (GM.N) plans to offer a new electric vehicle with a style and price-point that can compete with the forthcoming Tesla Model 3 car due out in two years, the Wall Street Journal reported on Friday.
The $30,000 electric car called the Chevrolet Bolt, expected to debut commercially in 2017, will be able to drive 200 miles on a charge and is intended to cut into a market where Elon Musk's Tesla Motors Inc (TSLA.O) has been an investor darling.
Electric car purchases badly lag sales of gas-powered vehicles but the market is growing and GM will show off an early model of the Bolt at the Detroit auto show next week to stake a stronger claim in the space, the newspaper reported.
The Chevy Bolt will boast a stronger battery manufactured by South Korea's LG Chem Ltd , the paper reported.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015010818:41
SYMBOL = M
Department store operator Macy's Inc (M.N) said it would close 14 stores in early spring 2015 and cut some jobs to focus on its popular services such as in-store pickups for online orders and "ship-from-store".
Macy's, which owns the high-end Bloomingdale's chain, said the move would help offset higher expense expected from healthcare and retirement plans.
The retailer said its workforce is expected to remain at a level of about 175,000 as it expects to hire associates to expand its direct-to-consumer business.
Macy's has spent nearly $2 billion on IT and e-commerce projects over the past five years to compete with online giants such as Amazon.com Inc (AMZN.O).
Ship-from-store, a service that allows customers to order from another Macy's store if the item is not available and have it sent to their home, has helped Macy's keep a tight hold on inventory.
Picking up goods from stores after ordering online, a service being rolled out at all large Macy's and Bloomingdale's stores, has also gained popularity as shoppers can save shipping charges and collect orders when they want.
Macy's also said same-store sales for the holiday shopping period rose 2.7 percent.
"Macy's and Bloomingdale's websites, apps and fulfillment systems performed exceptionally well in the holiday season," Chief Executive Terry Lundgren said.
The restructuring is expected to save about $140 million per year beginning 2015. Macy's would record charges of about $100 million to $110 million in the fourth quarter.
Macy's said it would hire about 1,500 associates this year at the direct-to-consumer fulfillment center in Oklahoma which will start functioning in April.
The company said in 2013 that it would build a $170 million fulfillment center in Tulsa County to ship more orders to customers in the central and southern United States.
The store closures announced on Thursday include three stores in Ohio and three in California.
Macy's operates about 840 stores, including 13 Bloomingdale's outlets, according to its latest quarterly filing.
The company also said it would create a team to explore opportunities for a Macy's off-price business.
Macy's narrowed its fourth-quarter comparable sales growth forecast for owned stores to 1.9-2.4 percent from 1.8-2.8 percent.
The company's shares were down about 3 percent after closing at $67.81 on the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014121706:00:
SYMBOL = CVX
(Reuters) - Chevron Corp (CVX.N) is putting a plan to drill for oil in the Beaufort Sea in Canada's Arctic on hold indefinitely because of what it called "economic uncertainty in the industry" as oil prices fall.
In a letter to Canada's National Energy Board on Wednesday, the company withdrew from a hearing on Arctic drilling rules because it has walked away from plans to drill in the EL 481 block, 250 kilometers (155 miles) northwest of Tuktoyaktuk, Northwest Territories.
The drilling project is the largest yet put on hold after oil prices dropped by nearly half over the last six months, even as a long list of oil companies cut their budgets for 2015 because of the price drop.
"Chevron has put its drilling plans for EL 481 on hold indefinitely," the company said in its letter to the regulator, which was confirmed by a spokesman.
The San Ramon, California-based company has been planning the well since 2009 and had planned to drill the prospect in the 2020s, according to filings.
Imperial Oil Ltd (IMO.TO), which leads a joint venture with Exxon Mobil Corp (XOM.N) and BP Plc (BP.L), said on Wednesday that it has not changed early-stage plans to drill in the Beaufort Sea and that a final decision on the project has yet to made.
Chevron has two licenses to explore in the Beaufort, holding EL 481 outright and controlling 60 percent in the other alongside Norway’s Statoil ASA (STL.OL).
The company had previously outlined expectations to have “highly significant” capital outlays in the area. Chevron paid C$103.3 million for the rights to explore in the area of roughly 508,000 acres (206,000 hectares). The region is just east of the Canada-U.S. border.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091720:00
SYMBOL = DPS
Dr Pepper Snapple shares have significantly outperformed both Coca-Cola and Pepsi over the last five years.
The company trades at a lower price to earnings ratio than its two larger competitors and also possesses a higher projected long-term EPS growth rate.
A dividend growth analysis of Dr Pepper Snapple shows further share price gains can be expected.
Although none of these companies is trading at a particularly compelling valuation, Dr Pepper Snapple is the best choice moving forward.
If you are interested in buying shares of a non-alcoholic beverage manufacturer, Coca-Cola (NYSE:KO) and Pepsi (NYSE:PEP) are probably the first two companies that come to mind. However, Dr Pepper Snapple (NYSE:DPS) trades at a lower multiple than either of these two giant competitors and potentially offers a better long-term growth opportunity as well. This article will investigate Dr Pepper Snapple from a dividend growth perspective and compare it to Coca-Cola and Pepsi.
Dr Pepper Snapple offers more than 50 beverage brands, some of which you may have enjoyed recently without even knowing which company owned them. Along with Dr Pepper and Snapple, the firm owns 7 Up (in the United States, it is distributed by Pepsi internationally), Schweppes, Mott's and Crush. Besides the difference in size between Dr Pepper Snapple and the two market leaders (for example, Cola-Cola is about 15x larger by market cap), it is important to understand that while Coca-Cola and Pepsi have significant levels of international revenue, all of Dr Pepper Snapple's sales come from North and Latin America.
Over the last five years, Dr Pepper Snapple has averaged 12% EPS growth annually, while Coca-Cola achieved less than half of that and Pepsi barely averaged 2% annualized earnings growth during this time. This growth resulted in Dr Pepper Snapple's stock significantly outperforming its two largest competitors over the last five years:
However, despite this impressive stock performance, Dr Pepper Snapple still trades at a discount to Coca-Cola and Pepsi on both a trailing and forward price to earnings basis. And while Dr Pepper Snapple is projected by analysts to grow at a slower pace than its rivals in 2015, it has the highest estimated long-term growth rate. None of these companies is particularly cheap using a PEG (price to growth) ratio analysis, but Dr Pepper Snapple does possess the most attractive PEG ratio of the group (2.28):
One troubling sign at Dr Pepper Snapple is the lack of operating income growth. Between 2009 and 2013, operating income actually decreased slightly. Much of the growth in earnings per share has been caused by share buybacks and not organic sales or profit growth. And while neither Coca-Cola nor Pepsi is growing at a particularly impressive pace, both companies have been steadily increasing operating income in recent years.
From a dividend and operating perspective, each of these companies has some attributes in common. They all offer similar dividend yields and comparable levels of recent dividend growth. The main difference between the three is that Coca-Cola trades at a higher price to sales ratio (and achieves a significantly higher net margin) than its competitors because it only produces the syrup for its beverages and does not handle the bottling operations itself.
Looking specifically at Dr Pepper Snapple from a dividend growth perspective, a reasonable expectation is that the payout ratio is held at approximately 50% moving forward. Based on the consensus long-term EPS growth rate of 7.6% as discussed earlier, this leads to a long-term dividend growth rate of 8.5%. The stock possesses a very low beta of 0.15 and while it faces significant competition from Coca-Cola and Pepsi, utilizing a discount rate of 11% appears reasonable. Using these variables leads to a share value estimate of $72, which represents approximately 13% upside from the stock's current price:
Another attribute that each of these companies has in common is that they all currently trade at a premium of between 15%-21% to their five-year average forward P/E ratio. This is a potentially worrisome trend when none of them is expected to grow significantly over the coming years. In particular, Dr Pepper Snapple trades at a higher forward P/E ratio than it has at any time over the last five years (and 21% above its five-year average):
It is difficult to argue that any of these three beverage companies is a compelling buy at current levels. However, all offer above-average dividend yields and possess low betas due to the non-cyclical nature of their products. Dr Pepper Snapple is not nearly as large as Coca-Cola or Pepsi and its brands are not as well known. However, its North American focus offsets some of this competitive risk and the stock trades at a discounted valuation relative to its two global competitors. A dividend growth analysis shows that Dr Pepper Snapple shares have further growth potential ahead and further dividend increases should allow the stock to continue to outperform both Coca-Cola and Pepsi moving forward like it has over the past five years. If you are a dividend investor who is interested in gaining exposure to the non-alcoholic beverage industry, Dr Pepper Snapple appears to be a better choice than its two more famous competitors.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091719:30
SYMBOL = NFLX
Netflix continues to acquire new members which is a great boost to its profitability.
The company decided to increase its service prices which will result in a higher revenue level with no extra cost.
The global expansion offers great long-term opportunity.
Netflix (NASDAQ:NFLX) has shown outstanding performance in the last two years. The share price of the company has gained more than 750% since late 2012, reaching the high of $480. The company is now trading more than 120 times its 2013 expected earnings, which is not a disadvantage if the company continues its performance. The growth in subscribers and the rise in the service prices greatly influenced the company's north direction. The global expansion also provides investors with great hope for the future. The price action offers great opportunity to enter the stock long at the current time.
Subscriber Growth
Netflix had less than 22 million subscribers at the end of 2011 in the US. The company steadily continued to grow with another 5.5 million subscribers added in 2012 and 6.3 million in 2013. Its current goal is to have more than 40 million subscribers by the end of 2014. The increase in domestic subscribers is a critical component for Netflix due to the advertising revenue. So far the company has achieved high margin growth of 27.1% in the second quarter of 2014. Netflix's target is to surpass the 30% mark during 2015.
Rise in Price
The increasing level of subscribers gave Netflix the ability to increase its average revenue per customer. In May of 2014, Netflix announced that it will increase the price of its streaming plans from $7.99 to $8.99 for new users only. The company currently offers 3 different plans to address the different needs of customers. It is safe to expect that the price of different services offered by Netflix will increase in the future as it acquires more members. The result is that the company will benefit with more revenue at no additional cost, which is a clear path to margin expansion.
Global Expansion
In the long term, the global expansion to Europe for Netflix could prove to be just as profitable as its domestic operations. According to the Netflix executives, the revenue could be 3 times as large with the international expansion. The downside however is the short-term need for capital seeding in order to expand overseas. The result of the recent attempts to expand to Europe has so far lead to more than a $800 million loss. When Netflix reaches the point where the international markets become much more profitable, the company will experience acceleration in its earnings.
Stock Movement
It can easily be seen that the share price is in a clear uptrend. The 20, 50 and 100 moving averages are showing further uptrend. Furthermore, the MACD indicator also is showing an upward direction. Some might say that it is too late to enter, however that is what brings me to the most important aspect of price action analysis, the breakout. It can be seen that the price recently broke the $450 mark, which is a clear indication of a further trend. The overall chart history is the best indicator available in providing future expectation, and in this case the price is in a clear up trend. The small pullback of the $470 mark was a sign of cool off before further continuation. It is likely that the price will continue rising with the possible target of $650 in sight, however the challenges may slow the stock before it can reach its target. From a price action point of view, the stock currently provides a perfect opportunity to enter long.
The biggest risk faced by the company is its extraordinary valuation. It is possible that in the future company's growth may need to slow down and take a breath. This will allow Netflix's P/E ratio to calm down to a more stable level. At the current price the company has to consistently produce outstanding growth data in order to keep up with the current valuation. In that being said, there is little indication of the company's slowdown in growth.
The risk also is present with the growing competition. The internet has made it easy for consumers to choose from a vast number of content streaming services. This makes it very easy for consumers to join or leave Netflix, if the company makes a wrong move or if competitors offer better service. The competition is clearly growing. Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN) has recently confirmed that it has over 20 million Amazon Prime subscribers. Furthermore, Amazon began to take more advantage of its large distribution capabilities to expand its streaming service, which also will benefit greatly from the introduction of the company's own set-top box. If there is one company that can spell trouble for Netflix, then it is Amazon.
Another risk comes with the battle between Comcast (NASDAQ:CMCSA) (NASDAQ:CMCSK) and Netflix. Netflix has been obliged to pay to Comcast in order continue the fast internet delivery of its service to the consumers. A prospective merger between Comcast and Time Warner (NYSE:TWC) will mean that the cable provider will have great power over online streaming companies such as Netflix. It has recently filed a petition to the Federal Communications Commission to stop the merger. If unsuccessful Netflix will have to pay extra to keep its service running at higher speeds. This could lead to lower profitability for the company.
Netflix shares should be on the watch list of both active and passive growth-oriented investors. Active investors will be required to employ higher risk management tactics in order to achieve the highest reward in the periods of price rallies. Passive investors will likely profit on the long-term growth of the company in the next couple of years.
The combination of subscriber growth and higher plan prices will undoubtedly lead to further gains in the company's contribution margin. The international expansion also sets out a good plan for the future and a strong chance for the price to surge in the next couple of years. The valuation risk is present. However the three key mentioned drivers could deliver the necessary growth to justify the company's high multiple. Netflix still has plenty in store for those who are interested in getting on the growth ride.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091722:38
SYMBOL = AMD
Moody's rates AMD's credit risk as high yield with its B2 credit rating... Why?
Default risk should be lower due to AMD’s strong asset recovery rates and healthy cash buffer.
AMD’s cash bond YTW (6.365%) and CDS (399 bps) are significantly mispriced by the credit market and should tighten.
Moody's "highly speculative," high yield credit rating of B2 for Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMD) is significantly overstating the company's fundamental credit risk. AMD's fundamentals show good cash flows that exceed (albeit sometimes barely) all operating obligations for the first five years. Also, the company has significant cash on hand, undrawn revolver and robust recovery rates that clearly indicate the risk of default is not high. This liquidity is so sufficient that the company does not need to be concerned over any need to refinance its debt (2019 & 2020). As a result, these factors drive a Valens Credit rating of IG4 (equivalent to Baa2), a "lower-medium grade" investment grade rating six ratings grades above Moody's rating.
The credit markets are also significantly overstating AMD's credit risk with credit default swap (CDS) pricing at 399bps and 2019 cash bond YTW at 6.365%. In contrast, Valens' Intrinsic CDS (iCDS) is at a much safer 166bps -- a difference of 233bps. Similarly, their cash bond YTW is 6.365% and Valens' implied YTW is only 3.325% for an even greater difference of 304bps. AMD's CDS and bond YTW are expected to tighten as credit markets better understand AMD's true credit profile.
Cash Flow Profile
Source: Valens Credit Analysis, Capital IQ, Company Financial Statements
Valens Credit produced a Credit Cash Flow Prime chart for AMD, as it does for every company it evaluates. The chart shows the cash flow generation and cash obligations related to the credit of the firm, adjusted for non-cash financial statement reporting distortions from GAAP. The blue line shows the gross cash earnings expected to be generated based on consensus analyst estimates and Valens Credit's in-house research team. The blue dots above that line include the cash available when cash on the books and existing, available credit lines are used.
The colored, stacked bars show the cash obligations of the firm for each year forecast. The most difficult obligations to avoid are at the bottom of each stack, such as interest expense. The obligations with more flexibility to defer year-to-year, such as pension contributions and maintenance capex, are at the top of the stacked bars. All of the calculations are adjusted for non-cash distortions that are inherent in GAAP accounting, including the highly problematic and often misused statement of cash flows.
Obviously, if the company generates and has cash levels that are above their obligations, the risk of default is low. Even if the cash generated each year is close to the top of the stacked bars, as with AMD, the company has the flexibility to defer payments of various kinds. For example, they can allow assets to age a little longer or cut certain maintenance costs, such as R&D. While decisions such as those can create other business concerns, the issue in credit risk is "can they pay their credit obligations?" AMD's chart shows that their cash flows and cash on hand are more than sufficient to cover all their obligations including debt maturities. Again, this is why Valens has given AMD an investment grade rating.
AMD's gross cash earnings (Valens' scrubbed cash flow number) would offer at least an $80mn buffer over operating obligations each year. Also, with $950mn cash on hand, the firm would have no issues handling debt maturities occurring over the next several years. AMD does not face significant debt maturities until 2019 and 2020, when gross cash earnings alone won't cover these maturities along with operating obligations. However, they will have plenty of cash flows available to handle obligations because of their material cash on hand and their likely cash build over the next several years.
Based on AMD's substantial capitalized R&D and positive working capital levels even after distressing current assets, AMD would also have robust recovery rates (157%) in the event of a default. This further reduces the credit risk of the company, in addition to offering the company access to the credit markets.
Management Incentives
People do what they are paid to do and that includes senior executives and board members. That's why AMD's Form DEF 14A is key to understanding this company's fundamentals, something which credit agencies and the credit markets appear to be missing. Valens' Incentives Dictate Behavior™ analysis focuses on AMD's senior executive compensation and governance. This analysis is meant to help investors understand corporate governance, and how aligned a management team may be with shareholder interests. It also highlights the potential consequences of a management compensation framework to the business.
AMD's management compensation is based on Adjusted Non-GAAP Net Income, Adjusted Non-GAAP Free Cash Flow, Revenue, and the company's TSR performance relative to S&P 500. This compensation framework is favorable for creditors, since it focuses management on increasing cash flows; cash flows which could be used to service debt obligations. It would also drive them to improve margins and to expand revenue over time. Ultimately, this framework will be beneficial to their ROA (Valens' Adjusted Return on Assets) going forward.
Management Representations
As a component of our evaluation of a company, Valens provides analyses of management's statements on earnings calls. Not surprisingly, we call this Management Representation Benchmarking™. This analysis is meant to help assess a management team's confidence in the statements they make about topics such as operations, stability, strategies, their ability to manage business risks, and most especially their liquidity and solvency.
Valens' analysis of AMD's Q2 2014 earnings call highlighted some areas of concern. First and foremost, their management didn't seem at all confident when talking about the sustainability of their EPS and the potential pressures from inventory instability. In addition, they may be concerned about their ability to invest in key areas that contribute to growth and to improve their operating expenses, especially through interest expense reduction. Finally, their concerns seem to extend to the potential impact of cryptocurrency to their Graphics business as well as the design wins in their embedded business.
Nonetheless, the bottom line is that these management issues and concerns would still not have enough of an impact on the company's cash flow profile going forward to substantiate the negative assessments of Moody's and credit markets. (More about Valens' innovative research tools is available here.)
Conclusion
A company's credit risk or lack thereof is driven by cash available against cash obligations. Given their level of cash generation from operations, their current cash on hand and their expected cash build, AMD's fundamental credit risk is being overstated by ratings agencies and by the credit markets. Period. AMD's ratings should improve and credit market spreads should tighten, once the credit markets and ratings agencies see the company's performance and their true credit profile.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091721:10
SYMBOL = FCAU
In A Nutshell: Fiat SpA (FIATY): the most unique investment we’ve ever found. FCA has the only management team in the auto industry that makes decisions based on ROIC, which is the most important value driver in capital-intensive businesses, as well as a robust history of successful turn-arounds. The stock trades at steep discounts to present value and very dramatic discounts to future value based on the most robust product plan in the auto industry. Using historical market responses to vehicle refreshments, we think FCA’s future value is north of €30 per share and if management’s recent plan is achievable, north of €50 per share into 2017. Thankfully, the stock is hated by European sell-side analysts and it has historically been one of the most-shorted stocks in Italy. Through our conversations with US analysts, we are optimistic a US-listed company will receive a more favorable reception. Yet, the investment is still a great one with no valuation re-rating given the considerable expansion in operating profit as both Fiat and Chrysler perform the most dramatic product update and expansion cycle the industry has ever seen.
Since Our Last Update: In the ﬁrst few months of the year, many investors ﬁnally began to take a look at Fiat SpA (F IM), and a lot of them were buying positions ahead of the “catalyst” in the 5-year plan presentation. For such optimism going in, we trimmed our position a bit, as we weren’t used to seeing so much enthusiasm in the trading of the company. Such investors were inherently focused on quick resolutions to a holding if they purchased shares because of a potential company announcement, yet if these traders had thought through the move a bit more, they could have spared us all some short-term volatility (of which we have since taken advantage). Any good management team in their right mind, would never commit to any spectacular near-term promises, in an effort to set reasonable, beatable market expectations. Even though Marchionne delivered a 5-year plan which exceeded any bull forecast over the plan horizon (far beyond our wildest hopes), he clearly set more reasonable expectations, that he would obviously hope to beat, for the next 18 months.
Nearly simultaneously, we saw value investors write up pitches on Fiat with the expected “catalyst” in a New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) listing, which had been expected for this fall. Before piling people into the trade ahead of an immaterial catalyst, it would have been a good idea to see how CNH Industrial has performed since accomplishing nearly the same transaction and listing.
To add to the investor malaise over a potential postponed “catalyst,” as if waiting six more months meant the investment thesis totally changed, news organizations have been reporting incorrect information that this merger has anything to do with the union of Fiat and Chrysler. It’s merely a corporate relocation (largely for tax purposes), which will also coincide with a listing on the NYSE. This has no relevance to the Fiat and Chrysler marriage despite the media getting it nearly unanimously wrong. Because the corporate relocation has been structured as a merger into a Dutch entity, under Italian law, dissenting shareholders to the merger have the ability to receive cash for their stock, rather than hold the stock in the new entity.
Because this cash out price was above where the stock was trading at the time of the vote (€7.11 vs. the withdrawal price of €7.73), shorter-term traders spotted the arbitrage and voted against the deal in order to receive the right for a quick ﬂip in the stock. Roughly 8% of shareholders have voted against the merger, and should all of these dissenters seek withdrawal rights, the merger won’t go through, and FiatChrysler will remain the exact same entity until a new tax inversion deal is conjured up. It would change nothing about the economic or operational merits of the company, despite the misinformation the media has been spreading.
While we do agree that a NYSE listing will help the company over the long-term, assuming it will suddenly allow traders to ﬂip the stock for a quick buck is insane. The share price of Fiat has been, and will be determined by the company’s fundamental operating trajectory. We have good news on that front.
North America Turning the Corner:
The major source of recent operational weakness, relative to expectations and plan, has ironically been in its strongest market: North America, where operating income has been declining from last year, despite the fact the company is breaking sales records left and right. We will be the ﬁrst to admit we are dismayed that Marchionne has allowed certain sales incentives in North America to dampen proﬁt margins, but many of them have been necessary to clear out old and terrible vehicles in dealer lots so as to make way for new and refreshed versions.
In fact, the ﬁrst and second quarters have been perfect storms for old and wrinkled products offsetting the pricing power that Rams and Jeeps are seeing today. The company is clearing out a bloated inventory (yes, it’s own fault) of Chrysler 200s, Dodge Avengers, Chrysler 300s (a refresh is coming in November), Dodge Chargers and Dodge Challengers. The one Jeep without pricing power - the Patriot - is about to get front-run in the market by the Jeep Renegade, and thus nearly every single horriﬁcally aged vehicle is about to be refreshed. The one exception is the minivan, which won’t see a refresh for at least a year (despite engineers on the minivans suggesting to us that updates are ready to go by the end of this year). Sales managers doing victory laps because of their minivan performance should be ashamed of themselves. Chrysler is merely buying the market share by slapping huge discounts on the minivans, in order to compete with the refreshed Toyota Sienna and Honda Odyssey. When the minivans ﬁnally get refreshed, Chrysler has enough room to lift pricing signiﬁcantly, and this maneuver alone will be an approximate $1B boon to annual operating proﬁt, slightly offset by better vehicle interiors and power-trains.
Yet, back to the disappointing ﬁrst and second quarters of this year: the company has faced a very pronounced model change-over cycle this year. The 200, 300, Charger and Challenger haven’t been refreshed for eons. The interior of the old Challenger literally looked like it was from the model year 1996. We’ve put detailed information in Exhibit 3 showing how signiﬁcant the impact will be when these models transition over to the new one, at signiﬁcantly decreased incentive levels.
At quick glance, these reduced incentives imply a nearly $300 million lift to quarterly operating proﬁt. This excludes the effects that better mix and volumes will have on operating proﬁt, yet will be offset by better and more expensive content in the vehicles. The AM/FM radio was extremely overdue for an upgrade. A $1.1B annualized improvement to pricing will go a long way to boosting Fiat’s North American proﬁts. Notice another proof point to this: Chrysler stand-alone proﬁt has been strong on the back of international Jeep sales (the brand with the most pricing power), as the company has none of the issues of clearing old models away in the rest of the world than it does in North America. Yet Fiat’s North American proﬁts were down year-over-year while Chrysler puts up healthy growth. This is merely an inventory clearance issue.
Another reason for Chrysler’s more aggressive leasing and incentive tactics has been internal pressure on brand managers to keep Chrysler’s “winning streak,” going. A few people within the organization have mentioned that the company is focused on keeping the “streak,” going, as in July, the company marked its 52nd consecutive month of year-over-year sales gains. Canadian operations have had even more impressive results, recording the 56th consecutive month of gains. While the progress has been remarkable, in the earlier part of 2014, it has somewhat been based on slightly more aggressive pricing and lease tactics. In fact, prior to the beginning of the year, when we modeled out each vehicle’s projected sales given each one’s stage in the product cycle, we projected Chrysler to have a few months of year-over-year declines. Of course, this never happened, and incentives and leasing are partly to blame. We are quite surprised Marchionne has allowed this, after he famously ﬁred a brand chief in 2009 after he suggested the company increase incentives on old Chryslers in order to sell more.
Now, thankfully, with the signiﬁcant 200 relaunch, the new Challenger, Charger, 300 and Jeep Renegade, the year-over-year comparisons are about to get a lot easier. Thus, no matter how dimwitted the goal of keeping the “winning streak,” going, the company now has breathing room to reduce incentives in the marketplace while still maintaining healthy selling volumes. We note that even with these volume predications shown in Exhibit 4, we are estimating the new aluminum Ford F-150 steals share from the Ram 1500 when it launches late this year.
These estimates are based on Fiat’s product plan, as outlined in May 2014, with products following a slightly less robust product cycle than similarly refreshed vehicles have followed recently. By way of comparison, Exhibit 5 displays how well the Ram, Cherokee and Dart have performed since launching. Both the Dart and Cherokee, while choppy from month to month, have followed the same trajectory that other signiﬁcantly refreshed vehicles have over the past six years in the US marketplace. The Ram has outperformed a typical product launch, which we would have never guessed, given pickup truck buyers are the most loyal consumers.
This very positive market reception to Chrysler’s new products has enabled it to take the most market share and grow its vehicle sales by the most of any automakers in the US over the last few years. Based on the same plan outlined in May, we expect Chrysler’s market share to continue to grow, with 2016 being a particular breakout year with the last of the “low hanging fruit,” refreshed (the minivan, Jeep Compass, and the Dodge Journey), as well as Alfa Romeos arriving. Exhibit 6 shows the estimated effect that FiatChrysler’s robust new product cycle will have in the market.
The Five Year Plan:
As mentioned previously, in March and April, there was much anticipation that Sergio would deliver a fantastic Five-Year plan in May, and short-term traders were building positions ahead of the expected “good news.” In fact, he did end up delivering a plan that could only be described with superlatives. In all of the articles on Fiat we’ve read, which have been substantial, no one has ever estimated the company could ramp sales from 4.35 million last year to just under 7 million vehicles in the next few years. Yet without any major heroics, Marchionne outlined a plan which would allow the group to ramp sales to the signiﬁcant level. There is simply no other story in the automotive industry, or perhaps in any industrial sector, which can rival such a plan. One would think in a world starved of top-line (revenue) growth, this plan would catch a few ears. Yet it was met with mostly disbelief and bears stuck to the same old arguments, which we debunk in pages 15-18.
Thankfully, short-term “catalyst-focused” traders have mostly left the building. Before getting involved with the stock, these traders would have done well to look at a few past annual reports to truly understand the company. On page 13 of the 2012 report, the company would have reminded them of timeless wisdom Seneca shared that, “It is a rough road that leads to the heights of greatness.” By now, Fiat investors must know CEO Sergio Marchionne doesn’t make decisions based on pressure or cajoling from sell-side analysts. He simply makes decisions based on the highest long-term return on invested capital (ROIC). In that, he is quite rare in the auto industry.
The Group at a Glance:
While many CEOs will give a nod to returns on capital at some point in their career, their goals are very rarely measured against this metric. Rather, the goals typically It is a rough road that leads gather around to the heights of greatness. Lucius Annaeus Seneca market share, number of vehicles sold, electriﬁcation and “futuristic” technologies, or even being a great company for employees to work at. All of those goals are good ones, yet they must provide a return on investment in order to keep the company healthy- this missing principle has scared the bejesus out of Volkswagen investors lately.
In capital intensive businesses, the easiest road to subpar or even disastrous performance is to pay little attention to expected returns on investment. This is even more important for companies trading at lower valuations. Given we’ve invested in Fiat at a valuation of less than 2x annual cash-ﬂow, assuming we hold our investments for longer than a few months, much of this cash-ﬂow will be reinvested by management during our holding period. Should the reinvestment be squandered, our “cheap” valuation can quickly become “expensive,” and therefore eliminate our margin of safety in the stock. If, however, management reinvests cash-ﬂow into high return endeavors, as Marchionne has focused on, we get signiﬁcant leverage to an improved cash-ﬂow proﬁle. The opposite can also be true for very expensive stocks, such as Tesla Motors. At extremely high valuations (or low cash-ﬂow yields), the company can dilute investors and plow the proceeds into very low ROIC endeavors, and still increase the cash-ﬂow earnings power of each share.
We won’t retransmit what the Marchionne and the company said during the two-day investor event in May, yet if any investor would like our detailed notes from the days, simply email us for a copy. Yet to brieﬂy summarize, FCA’s plan assumes very little help from the macroeconomic environment (nor any major pain) and is simply built on maximizing the untapped potential of certain brands and geographies. We summarize the ambitions in Exhibit 7.
Some of the share price decline in the wake of the presentation of the ﬁve-year plan was due to disappointment over the back-end loaded nature of the plan (the other components of disappointment were North American proﬁt margins, which we’ve previously reviewed). Given the thousands of moving parts in the operations of an automotive OEM, this is simply a smart move by Sergio, showing the serious potential of a couple un-tapped opportunities the group has, yet not committing to any near-term heroics. This will give him room to maneuver in a dynamic world, and still outperform the plan. As he remarked to us after the plan’s presentation, he is tying bonuses of managers to the speciﬁc targets laid out in the plan. If certain divisions don't perform, people don’t get paid. As a GreenWood Investor noted in the aftermath of the plan, he is publicly committing to delivering astonishing results that hardly anyone still believes is possible. This public commitment will drive any human being to execute. Yet, even if Sergio falls well short of his lofty ambitions, he will still go down as the best automotive CEO in decades (even if the media fails to recognize it, as they have with many other things at the company). And while some traders lamented that the plan was “back-end loaded,” we think it’s obvious that the share price, sub €10.00, doesn’t even reﬂect any of the near-term progress the company will make, much less earnings per share of over €4.00 per share. While the plan delivers substantial ﬁnancial rewards, we don’t believe it uses any overly aggressive assumptions, because it simply harnesses the untapped potential of the group. 
What are the major components to this untapped potential?
First, Chrysler’s and Fiat’s product portfolio has come a long way in the past few years (particularly on the Chrysler side), but both product portfolios are showing their age and are weaker than many other mass market automakers. These get refreshed over the next few years in North America, South America and Europe.
Second, Daimler essentially discontinued local production of Jeeps in China, prohibiting the ability of the brand to sell vehicles at reasonable prices. The fact that Fiat-Chrysler has captured 1% of the Chinese market with essentially one Fiat (the Viaggio) and very expensive Jeeps is a testament to Jeep’s brand value in China. In fact, the word SUV in China translates literally to “Jeep.” It’s an iconic brand in a culture with a penchant for SUVs, which is the fastest growing segment of the world’s largest auto market. Currently, Jeeps sell for more than 3x their price in the United States, due to a variety of factors including the heavy import tariffs imposed by the Chinese government to encourage local production. The cheapest Grand Cherokee available in the US starts at $29,495, while the cheapest Grand Cherokee in China starts at ¥579,900 ($94,139). Local production of Jeeps should start ﬁring up around this time next year, meaning the locally-produced vehicles will avoid any import tariffs and will be priced at very competitive levels to competition in the mass-market segment. No one should underestimate the signiﬁcant volume effects that will come by dropping price on a vehicle by over 66%. The fact that Marchionne is only aiming to capture 2.8% of the total Chinese market by 2018 speaks to the more conservative nature of the plan. Going from 1% to 2.8% market share by effectively expanding the portfolio from one competitively-priced vehicle to six should be doable even in the worst market conditions in China.
Third, Fiat’s South American operations currently only produce mini and sub-compact vehicles, and do not address the entire auto market in Latin America, despite the company being the largest automaker in Brazil and steadily growing in signiﬁcance in Argentina. Both countries have similar aggressive import tariffs that have limited Fiat’s ability to sell larger vehicles without local production. This all changes in ﬁve months, when FCA’s new plant in Pernambuco begins producing the Jeep Renegade. Given the larger vehicles and utilities will carry higher absolute proﬁts as well as higher margins, and the hefty government incentives given to the company in order to build the plant, this plant will both expand FCA’s addressable market and lift its margin proﬁle- even in the absence of a market recovery in Latin America.
Fourth, Maserati and Alfa Romeo have been ignored brands with uncompetitive products for their own segments for the last several decades. This began to change when Maserati released its signiﬁcantly refreshed Quattroporte, which has already doubled the average response by consumers to a “signiﬁcant refresh,” which is shown in Exhibit 5. We believe Maserati’s unexpected and stunning performance, which we discuss below, lends credibility to the company’s coming refreshment of Alfa Romeo. While it may be hard for German auto analysts to observe, the world has great demand for luxury Italian products, particularly ones that will have Ferrari genetic material.
These four major components offer the company very credible levers to pull the company’s ﬁnancials to the metrics Marchionne has shown us. In fact, with a better than expected recovery in Europe and a positive market response to Alfa Romeo, we think that the company can actually exceed the consolidated forecasts it gave. So what’s not to like, besides no near-term heroic commitments?
Some investors have more macroeconomic concerns than does the company, speciﬁcally many European auto analysts fear the US is at the top of the cycle. When contrasted to the market performance of Europe, the US certainly does look like it’s at the top of the cycle. However, the ﬂeet of vehicles on the road remains at an all-time high, and the pent-up demand created by years of implied demand stronger than actual vehicle sales has led to an estimated 9.1 million vehicles of pent-up demand above and beyond the implicit demand, which we deﬁne as the net number of new drivers on the roads plus the scrap rate. The scrap rate fell substantially in 2008-2011, yet has since recovered to north of 15 million vehicles as old pickups and Pontiacs ﬁnally start to hit the grave yard.
Europe, and in particular Italy, have faced even more dramatic deﬁcits to implicit demand than the US did in the ﬁnancial crisis. This is also the reason we think the company’s assumptions in Europe are too conservative. Italy has sold less cars than the average scrap rate every year since 2011. Even assuming no population growth, we estimate 1.6 million vehicles of pent-up demand has been created simply due to lack of scrapping and lack of demand. That ﬁgure is higher than any year of demand as estimated by Fiat in its ﬁve-year plan. Given Fiat owns roughly a third of this market, and consumers have responded very well to new product launches by Fiat (500L) and Maserati, we think there are upside risks to the ﬁve year plan’s projected European sales. We review and refute other criticisms launched at the company and the plan in the section below called Exploring the Bear Den (page 15).
Ferrari: The Spin-oﬀ Clock Has Started:
We were surprised that Marchionne essentially committed in public to spin-off Ferrari to shareholders. He reiterated this to us at a private meeting, when he said “For anyone that’s lived through the last ten years, it would be inopportune to have this asset monetized when the true value lies in accessing the asset itself. Ferrari belongs to the Fiat shareholders.” Marchionne detailed how believed that given the long customer waiting lists and the deliberate intention to limit production in order to maintain brand exclusivity, he believed the brand’s true value shouldn’t be compared to a typical auto company because of the inherent economic opportunity available should the company expand production. He took what most sell-side analysts consider to be a fair, if high, multiple of cash-ﬂow of the company, 9-12x, and claimed that if Ferrari satisﬁed actual consumer demand, annual cash-ﬂow would be over €1 billion. Thus, voila, in his eyes, Ferrari is worth in excess of €10 billion. While perhaps this was an ambitious valuation to assign to an incomparable company, at a minimum Ferrari should be worth at least as much as the recent Aston Martin deal valuation, 9.9x EBITDA. Using our estimate of D&A at Ferrari (using a 7year life to PP&E), and therefore estimated EBITDA of roughly €640 million, Ferrari should receive at least a €6.4 billion valuation, or €5.7 billion net to Fiat shareholders (€4.57 per share). Together, with Maserati’s value detailed below, this would mean the luxury brands at Fiat have a stand-alone value of €11.88 per share, which is 70% higher than today’s share price. In a spinoff scenario, Fiat’s shareholders would still own an automaker producing nearly 5 million vehicles a year for free.
Most analysts, arguing for the brand to be sold, have missed the purpose that Ferrari has served for Fiat’s shareholders. Particularly prior to the full merger with Chrysler, Fiat as a stand-alone entity without Ferrari would have been worth either next to nothing, or even perhaps less than the debt at the company. Ferrari has been a repository of value, as revenue and income actually increased during the ﬁnancial crisis. This value has been available to Fiat shareholders to protect against the downside risks to Fiat carrying a debt position on a company generating very little free-cash-ﬂow. In short, it has helped get Fiat to this point without bond vigilantes withdrawing funding from the company. Going forward, we expect the plan and increased volumes will help the company deleverage and maintain sustainably healthy and positive free cash ﬂow, allowing Ferrari to ﬁnally live its own fate as a separate company. Marchionne just committed to spinning this asset off, and we estimate FCA will be in a durably strong ﬁnancial position by the end of 2016, going into 2017. As we show below in Exhibit 12, we expect Fiat to de-leverage much quicker than it has promised, and should have an insigniﬁcant amount of net debt by the end of 2016.
Maserati: We have prepared, now we strike:
We’re not going to lie, Maserati’s Super Bowl advertisement ﬁred us up, as it should any underdog. Even prior to the ad, Maserati’s recent performance has been stunning in nearly every geography (with notable strength coming from Chinese buyers, 40% of which are women, contrasted to 5% in Western markets). Not only have global sales seen robust gains, but they continue to accelerate in the US, reaching an estimated 14k units on an annualized run rate in July.
While it’s very early to be conﬁdent in a level where sustainable sales will end up, we can apply some logic to the situation to come up with some potential scenarios for Maserati’s potential this year and next, after the Levante SUV is introduced. Currently, at roughly the 14k annualized rate in the US, dealer sales per month are still 12% less productive than Porsche’s more dispersed network. This could change as the SUV is introduced, since this is the only key segment in which Maserati is effectively not participating in. Maserati is continuing to build out its dealer network, but even now, it doesn’t look overly strained relative to Porsche. Maserati is aggressively expanding its dealer network in China, where sales in the ﬁrst half of 2014 were up over 9x from the prior year.
If 2014’s buying patterns and order rates hold their turbo pace, Maserati sales this year could surpass 35k. European Maserati sales are up an estimated 5x in the ﬁrst six months of the year. Given the EU represented only 2,000 of the total 15,400 Maserati sales in 2013, Europe is ﬁnally becoming an important market for Maserati, which was long reliant on the US and China for the lion’s share of the brand’s sales. In fact, at this pace, Maserati’s ﬁrst quarter 2014 sales nearly matched its full year performance in 2013. The fact that sell-side analysts still estimate Maserati sales up in single-digit-percentages for 2014 is truly mind-blowing.
Next, let’s take into account the potential of the Levante to add signiﬁcantly to these levels. In 2013, 51.8% of Porsche’s deliveries were of one model: its highly-acclaimed Cayenne SUV. The share was even higher outside of the US, thanks to voracious Chinese consumption of SUVs. If sales in 2015 build to anything remotely similar to Porsche’s car / SUV mix, the Levante may add an incremental 35k units to Maserati selling volumes. This gets Maserati well past its stated goal of achieving 50k in annual sales to nearly 75k on a run-rate basis. Yet, because the Levante is scheduled to start scaling production in early 2015, the year will be back-end weighted to the Levante, so 2016 will be the ﬁrst year that shows the full earnings potential of Maserati, and anything north of 50k units a year will be a great achievement, as displayed in Exhibit 10. Validating the likelihood of the company reaching annual sales of 75k vehicles, the company has already stated that it will be limiting production to 75k a year to maintain brand exclusivity. Ferrari has pulled a similar stunt at levels below 7k a year, and it has sent Ferrari prices zooming and waiting lists lengthening. Using estimated contribution margins for each model, the sensitivity levels for Maserati’s revenue and operating proﬁt will vary by production levels accordingly:
While we believe Porsche to be a much stronger brand than Maserati, Volkswagen’s purchase of the remaining stake in mid 2012 is one of the only recent transactions of a luxury brand. The €8.9 billion valuation given to Porsche in Volkswagen’s purchase turned out to be 9.4x that year’s operating proﬁt. If we exclude the outliers of Renault (negative enterprise value) and Tesla (insanely rich enterprise value), the median current multiple for a global automotive OEM is 7.8x. Given Maserati’s proﬁt margins are substantially higher than the industry, we ﬁgured it would be fair to take the average of these valuations and value Maserati 8.6x operating proﬁt (lower than Ford’s adjusted EV valuation today), should the brand hit any of the key milestones set forth above, the brand would be worth €4.4B-€9.2B, or €3.53-7.31 per share. Obviously if the Levante reaches a similar 50% mix of Maserati’s sales in 2015-2016 (getting the brand to 70-75k annual sales), the brand will be worth more than the entire market cap today. Even falling well short of that target, Maserati will still create meaningful value for stockholders. When we ﬁrst invested in Fiat, and even as short as nine months ago, we never expected the brand could deliver this much value to the company. Everyone has been focused on the inherent value of Ferrari in the company, but by mid 2015, it will be obvious to all that Maserati’s brand value easily rivals that of Ferrari’s. We also think the performance of Maserati speaks directly to the ability of Alfa Romeo to be received credibly in the marketplace with relevant and competitive products.
Elusive Alfa Romeo:
Bearish analysts correctly point to endless historical delays in revamping the Alfa Romeo brand, with Marchionne missing multiple timetables for new product launches. We admit, this has been an important component of our thesis, as transitioning Fiat’s underutilized Italian factories to produce luxury vehicles was thought to be key to helping Fiat achieve proﬁtability in Europe. Yet, proﬁtability is a feat already within the company’s reach. Fiat’s European division came €6 million short of achieving break-even in the second quarter of 2014, without any fresh Alfas, and even with launch costs associated with starting production of the Jeep Renegade. Thus, with incremental Jeep and new Fiat production coming, Alfa is perhaps less necessary than previously suspected.
Yet, even still, Alfa’s relaunch begins late next year with the Giulia, roughly six months later than we expected in our January video. The revamp of Alfa is also carrying a slightly higher price tag, ringing in at roughly €1 billion more than we had estimated given we assumed the company was still going to use selected underpinnings from Chrysler. The company estimates the total capital spending and R&D associated with revitalizing Alfa Romeo with 8 new models will be €5 billion, but that includes industrializing production in two Italian factories that will need a fair amount of new tooling and upgrades. While the company claims that few of the components will be shared between Alfa and the rest of the group, besides transmissions and electronics, there’s no way the company is achieving product development costs less than €0.5 billion without leveraging engineering and development that has taken place at sister brands. Given numerous leaks in the past that suggested there would be substantial sharing among Fiat’s sister brands, and our knowledge that prototypes of the Giulia were ready as early as 2012, our best guess as to what has happened to Alfa was the early prototypes were ﬁne, but didn’t have the same “wow,” factor that the 4C has generated in the press. So while the price tag for the revamp has crept up by €1 billion, success will be more likely with a product not constrained by sharing ⅔ of the underpinnings with a rear-wheel-drive Dodge.
€5B is a hefty investment for Fiat, which will be spent over the next four years, and the Giulia will serve as a litmus test for continuing the Alfa expansion. Marchionne has said the total spending is highly discretionary and based upon early success of the Giulia. Only nine months are needed for the company to get a new model in the showroom after the headquarters gives the green light to industrialize the next production line. Thus, while we acknowledge the project is expanding in cost and making it a higher-stakes investment, very little of the total ﬁgure will be spent before we have a sign that the revamp will deliver meaningful positive returns. Indeed the 4C order book is also demonstrating the signiﬁcant pent up demand for Alfas. Yet, with less than 10k vehicles to be produced, the 4C can not reliably serve as a bellwether the way most analysts would prefer. Even if the company falls well short of its goal to sell 400k Alfa Romeos a year by 2018, up from the 100k range it’s been stuck in for the past few years (though it fell to 74k last year), Fiat should break-even on its €5 billion investment over the life cycle of the vehicles as long as annual selling volumes surpass 140k units in 2018.
Given the company sold 74k vehicles last year with only two vehicles addressing the smallest portion of the luxury segment (compact and subcompact) and with the Italian market half that of a few years ago, we think reaching 140k should be easily achievable with 8 competitive luxury products addressing nearly 100% of the luxury market, with expanded market presences in the US and Asia. Given the higher margins on luxury products and the higher price points, piling €5 billion into Alfa Romeo is not the same as the lower-return prospect of plowing €5 billion into small, mass-market European or Latin American cars that were typically Fiat's other viable alternatives. If Fiat actually achieves its 400k target in 2018 and maintains that selling rate, we estimate the Alfa revamp will carry a 50% rate of return over the next decade, with a net present value €7.6 billion (cutting cash ﬂows off in 10 years). Thus, Alfa is another segment worth about as much as the company is valued in the market place today. Banking on such a value today requires a leap of faith, but we feel comfortable that Alfa will not represent a value destructive endeavor no matter the outcome. And if Marchionne is eventually proved correct, it represents another signiﬁcant luxury opportunity that no other automaker can offer shareholders and no ﬁnancial analyst assumes is possible.
Exploring the Bear Den:
Given that most sell-side analysts are bearish, and Fiat maintains a high short interest, we thought it would be useful to discuss these bearish arguments, and putting the Kool-Aid aside (of course we’re bullish on the company), every single argument we’ve heard so far is rationally incorrect. Given we focus on downside risk well before estimating what our upside opportunity is, we’ve clearly explored these arguments to test our own thesis - we would never have made Fiat such a large position if any of these bear arguments were in fact valid. Before we start off, we would just note that while we were nervous that Fiat was no longer a contrarian position a few months ago, a recent survey conducted by ISI Research showed that among clients investing in the auto industry, Fiat is still a “consensus short.” We think that's very positive for our long position, because we believe their short thesis is rationally and fundamentally ﬂawed, and they will eventually create more buying pressure on the stock.
The ﬁrst and most frequent criticism that Fiat has unsustainably high leverage misses the entire point. Leverage has been sustainable thus far, and Fiat’s net leverage ratio has already peaked with bond yields hovering at or below 4% for the company. While interest rates in Europe are being repressed by speculation of the ECB embarking on a round of Quantitative Easing, Fiat has historically ﬁnanced itself without any trouble at much higher costs of capital. Still, would we rather see a company debt-free? Of course! Yet Fiat wouldn't be so undervalued if this were the case and the cost of equity is incredibly high given the enterprise trades for just under a 35% cash-ﬂow yield. Because Fiat’s cash-ﬂow will expand, even in the near-term, the leverage ratio will still decline handily in the coming quarters, even with debt balances not declining signiﬁcantly (though we expect it should do so more than the company has suggested given working capital contributions to the cash balance as production increases). Our comfort on the sustainability of Fiat’s debt has always lied in the fact that it could monetize Ferrari should it need to, or also that Ferrari was a distributable asset under Fiat’s bond indentures, thus in a worst-case scenario, the company could either de-leverage signiﬁcantly or spin-out Ferrari and leave us with a healthy, proﬁtable and valuable asset that was equivalent to our purchase price of the entire company.
Because most sell-side analysts do not trust the ramp in Fiat’s cash-ﬂows, and have perennially underestimated the effects that growing production has on replenishing cash balances, forward consensus estimates do indeed suggest Fiat’s leverage will not decline. Yet the company has consistently beaten its own net debt guidance (though with Q1 and Q3 seasonality, these quarters always show a higher net debt balance) as well as sell-side estimates on the company’s net debt. Even if Fiat doesn’t beat its own net debt guidance from the ﬁve year plan, the leverage ratio will steadily come down over the next several quarters as cash-ﬂow grows.
The second major point has been that if you convert Fiat’s results from IFRS to GAAP, it’s one of the most highly-valued automakers in the world. This is ﬂat-out false. When we see these allegations, we ﬁnd it funny that the allegations are never backed up by showing the math. We show our math in Figure 13, and one can see that it’s still trading at a hefty discount to GM and Ford - both companies that have similar revenue mixes as FCA with a far less robust product cycle than FCA. When we convert our operating cash-ﬂow (EBITDA) and operating income (EBIT) to GAAP, we take out the R&D expenses that Fiat capitalizes, net it against the depreciation (for EBIT) of prior capitalized R&D to come up up with our GAAP-speculated ﬁgures. The only problem with this method is that it’s more conservative than reality. That’s ﬁne with us, because the math still works, but when Fiat used to report reconciliations of Chrysler’s EBIT from IFRS to GAAP, there were a number of positive offsets that would make the net effect much lower. Fiat’s former corporate sibling, CNH Industrial, is actually reporting higher GAAP income than IFRS income because of similar effects.
But let’s go ahead and assume there are no positive offsets to the expensing of R&D. When companies like Ford go through dramatic “expansion” capital spending, as the company has been rapidly multiplying its Chinese capacity, analysts would typically split the expenditures between “maintenance” spending, or what’s needed to sustain business as usual, and “growth,” spending. Because Fiat is not only overhauling its entire vehicle lineup between 2013-2016, but is signiﬁcantly expanding its Total Addressable Market (“TAM”) by building out three tiers of luxury products that cover nearly 100% of all luxury segments as well as investing in Asian capacity, particularly for Chinese consumers who are thirsty for affordable Jeeps. But Fiat remains in the “penalty box,” by market participants, so let’s also say Fiat doesn’t get the beneﬁt of the separation between maintenance and growth spending. It’s still undervalued relative to GM and Ford and its GAAP-equivalent income is poised to grow signiﬁcantly faster than its Detroit peers, even if it misses its plan targets by a long shot.
The third major argument bears have made is that Marchionne has missed the plan targets that he presented in 2010, particularly when it comes to Alfa Romeo - attempts at pulling off the renaissance have been repeatedly delayed. While it’s true that Alfa has been the stand-out miss for Marchionne, any rational human being would have made the same choices that Marchionne has made on the brand: use any excess company cash-ﬂow to buyout the minority stake in swiftly-growing Chrysler (the total purchase price was approximately 1.0x EBITDA), and delay product investment in the European market because the volumes and margin proﬁle of the vehicles would risk a negative return on investment. Given we know there were prototype Alfa Romeos nearly ready to go in 2012, Marchionne is sincerely focus on making sure the vehicle is world-class. The Alfa Romeo 4C, the expanded Maserati range and the spectacular press reaction to the Alﬁeri demonstrate the company is sparing no expense when it comes to developing world class products that will generate better returns on the investment. Why spend €350 million on a rebadged Dodge when you can spend ~€500 million to create a product that will rival BMW, Audi and Mercedes?
Although the last Five Year plan was presented in April of 2010, a month before Greece kicked off the European ﬁnancial crisis, Fiat actually beat its 2013 revenue goal of €83 billion with total revenue of €86.8 billion. And even with signiﬁcant product investment delayed shortly after the plan was presented as a result of the crisis, 2013’s actual EBITDA of just over €8 billion wasn’t too far off the estimate of €9 billion given four years before. Even if Marchionne is multiple billions off of his €17 billion EBITDA target in 2018, the investment will still be a fantastic one. On the other hand, if he actually pulls of such a feat, it will be a career-making investment.
The fourth and last major argument we’ve heard is that the plan relies too heavily on a stable macroeconomic backdrop, which is unlikely. It would be hard to argue, with European sales having ﬁnally stabilized and started to grow, that signiﬁcant weakness would come from Europe. Latin America has made it tough to endure both its hangover from the tax incentives in 2012 and 2013 and its particularly choppy economy. The fact that Fiat is still proﬁtable in the market, while nearly all competitors are losing signiﬁcant amounts of money, gives us some comfort that should the market deteriorate further, the industry would take corrective pricing and capacity consolidation action in order to improve the results. For now, Asian economies have very little inﬂuence over Fiat’s ﬁnancial proﬁle, and even in a depressed future Chinese auto market, selling Jeeps for ⅔ less than the current pricing will still open up a unique opportunity for Fiat to capture pent-up demand for its products. So that leaves us with the North American market, which we’ve previously detailed has only begun to catch up from the years of auto sales falling short of implicit demand. If housing sales and construction activity were at peak levels, perhaps we’d be nervous about truck and SUV sales, yet both seem to be only just recovering from the generational low they both experienced in 2007-2010.
Yet, we still acknowledge that economies are inherently unpredictable, and consumer behavior is even more ﬁckle. A few short years ago, bondholders wanted Fiat’s cash ring-fenced away from Chrysler’s, so that the North American sibling wouldn’t take the European ship down. Only a year later, the opposite was feared in pricing Chrysler’s debt reﬁnancing. There will be some economic assumptions which prove too conservative (potentially Europe) and there could be others that are offset by this, and prove to be weaker than imagined. Our assumptions have typically assigned ﬂat macroeconomic circumstances, so as to isolate all of the levers the company is pulling to improve the business.
Summarizing the Opportunity & Why It Exists:
Through the last 18 pages, we hope we’ve given a clear overview of the company and the investment opportunity. Many people look at Fiat cars in Europe (excluding the 500), or look at aged vehicles in the Chrysler lineup and think, “what a terrible company.” Others look at Fiat’s balance sheet and can’t remember a handful of quarters ago, when many automotive businesses (Ford, Nissan, Renault, Peugeot) carried net industrial debt positions. For the Europeans at the bottom of the cycle, it was just a few quarters ago. Then add misinformation spread by a media that republishes incorrect stories, and you get a perfect combination for Fiat to be hated amongst many market participants and analysts. In fact, a very smart and reputable London hedge fund manager boiled Fiat’s business down to one clear sentence: “it is a bad company that needs a capital increase.” He unproﬁtably covered his short within two months of saying this at an industry conference.
With the halt in the the decline in European auto sales, the company could have deleveraged the balance sheet by side-lining investments in Maserati or Alfa Romeo, or it could have monetized Chrysler of Ferrari a long time ago. Clearly, the company has chosen growth and investment over shrinking the balance sheet.
Would Ford be in a better or worse place than if it had not sold Jaguar / Land Rover at the bottom? Given Tata’s recent phenomenal operating results on the backs of those brands, clearly the sale wasn’t a good one. Fiat offers far more longer-term upside than any other automaker, because, like Tata, it has chosen to invest in neglected auto brands, create world class products, improve the quality (JLR also suffered from poor perceptions of quality), and reap the rewards of such endeavors in the future. It requires a strongwilled CEO to ignore the impatient demands of 29-year-old MBA graduates demanding the company pull levers that will help them ﬂip out of the stock in the next few months at a 20% proﬁt. Thankfully, Fiat has its man in Sergio Marchionne. And importantly, the company has developed a deep management bench underneath him. Alfredo Altavilla has accomplished incredible results in Europe - beating rivals in improving operations without the same refreshed products most of them enjoy.
Growth At a Reasonable Price (GARP) is a well known term, but not GADV (Growth at a Deep Value). Yet we believe the product investments and the results they will have on FCA, above and beyond any European or Latin American market recovery, will manifest themselves into a materially better company than anyone imagines today.
While we’ve left readers and viewers with Sergio’s words before, we feel it’s only appropriate in the midst of the current stock volatility to leave the reader with a timeless classic. Thanks for your time and interest.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091718:52
SYMBOL = RXII
RXi Pharmaceuticals is an up-and-coming biotechnology company that has recently caught my eye after losing 40% of its value in four trading sessions.
This company works with ribonucleic acid interference technology to create a prophylactic treatment for scar and keloid prevention; currently, there are no FDA approved prophylactics of this nature.
Phase 1 results were incredibly strong, and early Phase 2 results were, in my opinion, misinterpreted leading to an opportunity buy in RXi shares.
The market potential is massive, as incidence of post-surgical scars occurs in anywhere between 40% to 94% of surgeries.
The risks to the company are minimal beyond potential trial failure; the cash burn rate is well-managed, and the company has enough cash until at least until late 2015.
RXi Pharmaceuticals (NASDAQ:RXII) is an up-and-coming biotechnology company that has recently caught my eye after losing 40% of its value in four trading sessions (figure 1). That is one of the huge risks in investing in the small developmental-stage biotechnology companies. The pain of losing 40% is very real. But, in my opinion, investors should not panic. I view this sell-off as an opportunity. The stock may have gotten a little ahead of itself, but is now trading at a 52-week low after reporting good (not great) news on one of its clinical trials. In this article, I will discuss this company and why I decided to make an opportunity, albeit speculative buy at $2.12 on the open market today.
Figure 1. Share Price of RXi Pharmaceuticals, Last 5 Days
Source: Google Finance
Who is RXi Pharmaceuticals?
RXi Pharmaceuticals is one of the more interesting companies that I have come across. This company works with ribonucleic acid interference technology, or RNAi for short. RNAi is a biological process in which RNA molecules inhibit gene expression. This is usually done by triggering the destruction of specific messenger RNA molecules. The messenger RNA molecules (or mRNA) are responsible for conveying genetic information from DNA to the ribosome, where they specify the amino acid sequence of the genes which code for proteins (figure 2). This process was worked on heavily by Andrew Fire and Craig C. Mello, and according to this recent article on RXi Pharmaceuticals, they shared the 2006 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their work on RNA interference in the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans, which they published in 1998. What is most interesting is that Craig Mello was one of the founders of RXi Pharmaceuticals, and is still involved with the company today.
Source: Tokresource.org
Why is RNAi a potentially profitable therapy?
Let's be realistic. New therapies are being investigated all the time, but only those that show promise and the potential for profit go anywhere. I think RNAi has a shot. Why? Well, when proteins are created too heavily, and are so-called "overexpressed," it can lead to many complications. It is interesting to note that an overabundance of certain proteins is the hallmark of many different diseases. So how can RNAi stop this process? Well, RNAs are made from genes, and several small RNAs can bind to other specific messenger RNA (OTCQB:MRNA) molecules and alter their processes, generally by stopping an mRNA from producing a protein. RNA interference has an important role in defending cells, and can influence cellular development. Much more on the process can be found here.
What RXi Pharmaceuticals employs to achieve RNA Interference
RXi Pharmaceuticals uses a form of RNAi called sd-rxRNA. The "sd" in this form of RNAi stands for "self-delivery," which is a process to help deliver the therapy to target tissues of choice. How do they do this? Researchers previously have encapsulated the sd-rxRNA into a lipid (or fat)-based particle which helps improve circulation time and cellular uptake. But researchers at RXi have taken it to the next level. They have developed drug-like delivery properties into the RNAi compound itself (figure 3). The compound they have created has features that "allow it to achieve efficient spontaneous cellular uptake and potent, long-lasting intracellular activity. RXi's sd-rxRNA compounds are designed for therapeutic use and have drug-like properties, such as high potency, target specificity and efficient cellular uptake."
The most common disease that this technology could impact is cancer, which is an overgrowth of useless/harmful cells. But RXi isn't quite there yet, with the exception of some research into cancers of the eye. At this point, RXi does not have significant involvement in cancer-related therapies (with the exception of retinoblastoma). From the technology, the company formulated RXI-109, which is an anti-fibrotic agent that has been designed to limit the expression of a regulator that causes scar formation. The company is also investigating the use of its RNAi technology in ophthalmology to treat proliferative vitreoretinopathy, macular degeneration, and retinoblastoma.
Figure 3. Graphic Illustrating The Unique Properties of RXi Pharmaceuticals' RNA Interference Compound sd-rxRNA
Source: RXi Pharmaceuticals website
Show me the data
As you read this, you are probably thinking the technology sounds really intriguing. I concur. But the scientist in me (and the investor) clamors for the data. Well, unlike cancer trials or conditions with yes/no indications, there are little statistics to be measured. It's a very subjective analysis. So what is the company doing, and how do the results look?
Phase 1 Results
RXI-109 underwent two initial Phase 1 studies that yielded strong results. As with any Phase 1 trial, the company was looking for safety, tolerability and optimal dosing. As such, RXI-109 was evaluated for safety and preliminary clinical effects on scar formation at incision sites on the abdomens of healthy volunteers. Both Phase 1 studies were designed to allow within-patient comparison at each dose level of RXI-109 vs. placebo. In the first trial, a single-dose study (coded RXI-109-1201), 15 subjects were put into 5 cohorts consisting of 3 healthy volunteers each. Each individual received an intradermal injection of RXI 109 at two sites on their abdomen, and an intradermal injection of placebo at the two other sites. The primary outcome measures were to assess the safety and tolerability of intradermal administration of RXI-109, and to evaluate safety and tolerability of RXI-109 at the site of intradermal injection. There was also examination and assessment of any and all local and systemic toxicities.
In the second Phase 1 trial, a multi-dose study (coded RXI-109-1202) was conducted. This, once again, contained 15 subjects that were put into 5 cohorts of 3 healthy volunteers each. In this trial, participants received eight separate incisions, four on each side of the abdominal midline. Incision sites on one side of the abdomen received RXI-109 by intradermal injection, while incision sites on the other side of the abdomen received placebo. The primary outcome measures were to assess the safety and tolerability of multiple intradermal administration of RXI-109, and to evaluate safety and tolerability of RXI-109 after multiple intradermal injection at the incision sites. Both studies also examined secondarily any positive or negative effect on apparent scarring.
The results were impressive. First, RXI-109 was safe and well-tolerated in both Phase 1 safety studies. Local skin reactions were generally mild and similar to reactions typical of a healing wound. More importantly, there seemed to be a true effect in these small samples. The company found that "there was significant reduction of connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) protein 84 days after a single dose of RXI-109 in RXI-109-1201 and of CTGF mRNA three days after the third weekly dose of RXI-109 in RXI-109-1202." This is great, because they are consistent with the expected mechanism of action of RXI-109.
Phase 2 trials
RXI-109 is currently involved in several Phase 2 studies. In these more advanced studies, timing of administration is being measured. RXI-109 administrations early in the time course of wound healing may result in reduced scarring by silencing the increased production of CTGF that results from an injury to the skin. Because hypertrophic scarring and keloid formation are in part associated with over-expression of CTGF, the effect of RXI-109 treatment in subjects with preexisting hypertrophic scars or keloids may be clinically beneficial. The Phase 2 trials include subjects with existing scars or keloids who elect to undergo scar revision or keloid excision surgery, combined with treatment of one revised scar or excised area with RXI-109 and treatment of a separate revised scar or excised area with placebo. As such, these trials are epidemiologically similar to the design of case-crossover studies, in which each case is also a control, given the exposures and outcomes being assessed.
In the first Phase 2 trial, (coded RXI-109-1301) a multi-center randomized controlled trials is being conducted in healthy subjects who undergo an elective surgical revision of a transverse hypertrophic scar on their abdomen. In this study, the patients undergo scar revision surgery, after which they are treated with RXI-109 on one end of the scar and placebo on the opposite end of the scar.
In April of this year, the company began its second Phase 2 study (coded RXI-109-1401) for RXI-109 treatment to prevent recurrence of keloids in patients undergoing keloidectomy. Patients with two keloids of similar size and location are eligible for the study. After keloidectomy, the lesions are closed, and one is treated with RXI-109, and the other is treated with placebo. As is the case for the study in hypertrophic scars, patients are being followed for several months clinically and with photographs after the end of treatment.
Finally, the company just began a third Phase 2 trial in July examining RXI-109 for the reduction of recurrence of hypertrophic scars following elective scar revision surgery. In this study, patients with either one long hypertrophic scar, or two scars comparable in length, anatomical location and characteristics, are eligible to receive scar revision surgery. For a single scar, a portion of the revised scar segment will be treated with RXI-109, and a comparably sized length on the opposite end of the excised scar segment will be left untreated. If two scars are revised, one revised scar segment will be treated with RXI-109, and one scar will be left untreated after revision surgery. This third Phase 2a study will follow patients for nine months.
Is it effective?
This is the million (or billion) dollar question. Figure 4 depicts an image of a faded scar treated with RXI-109. Scarring is the normal result of wound healing, but in some cases, the healing process is overdone. So-called hypertrophic scars are abnormal scars that are raised above the normal skin surface, and can be reddened, shaded or darker than the existing skin tone. These scars result in part from an increased level of collagen, and are more hardened than the surrounding skin. Such scarring can be reduced with RXI-109, according to the Phase 1 and early Phase 2 data.
Figure 4. Lower Abdominal Hypertrophic Scar: Before and After Treatment With RXI-109
Source: RXi Pharmaceuticals Phase 2a (RX-109-1301) Results
Why did the stock sell off?
Recall earlier that the stock caught my eye after shedding 40%. This occurred because the president and CEO, Dr. Geert Cauwenbergh presented data from the first Phase 2 trial at a recent conference. According to the results "assessment of 1-month post surgical photographs by 11 blinded evaluators suggest that delayed treatment with RXI-109 (cohort 2) is better than immediate treatment (cohort 1). In Cohort 2 only, there was a statistical preference for RXI-109 treated scars by both comparative observations (RXI-109 treated- vs. placebo-treated scars) and by evaluation of the scars using a visual analog scale. Based on these early observations, the dosing regimen in this study can be fine-tuned and we can more rapidly move forward to an optimized treatment for prevention of scarring after surgery." Here is the kicker. Evidently, the slides showed that the scars had yet to really fade. This spooked investors, triggering a massive sell-off that continues as I write.
Here is why the sell-off is unjustified
I realize a statement that a stock sell-off is unjustified is a bold one to make. But I stand by it. Here is why I disagree with the market makers driving this stock down to fire-sale opportunity levels. Skin is skin, and the healing process is similar among animals. The photos were taken ONE MONTH after treatment. Just one month. On average, however, it takes 6 months to a year for real scar measurements, including hypertrophic and/or keloids, to be fully quantified. Keloids formation may occur a little soon, but always after healing, as skin cells multiply by triggered to close the damaged area. In general, that process does not take place until two to four months after healing is initiated. Further keloid raising of the tissue does become apparent to the naked eye for a few months later. My take is that you need to see photos taken 6-12 months later, as these will tell a MUCH clearer story. The non-scientists who saw these one-month photos triggered what I believe to be a panic. The data was STRONG, not weak. It is my opinion that it was misinterpreted, as you can review the sales data from the day of the presentation. Heavy selling volume occurred before the presentation began, implying photos were leaked. It also implies those selling had no knowledge of the technical medical nature of the scarring process or its treatment. Thus, I predict that these patients' scars will more resemble the earlier animal and Phase 1 photos in 6 to 12 months. I should also point out that Dr. Cauwenbergh bought 10,000 shares at $2.17 following the sell-off, giving me a little more confidence in the company and the stock.
Is there a market if the treatment really is effective?
The bottom line is that scar reduction and prevention is an area of high unmet medical need. There really isn't a universal standard of care, and to my knowledge, there are no FDA-approved therapies for the prophylactic reduction of scarring. Sure, there is cocoa butter and other skin products over the counter, but currently, no one has a real therapy for scar prevention. Given the large number of surgical procedures and the negative effect of abnormal/hypertrophic scarring on health and quality of life, there is a significant market for a scar prevention therapeutic such as RXI-109. What I think is the kicker here is that epidemiologically, the incidence is extreme. Incidence of these scars occurs anywhere in 40% to 94% of surgeries.
Risks
In the prior overview article written by Dr. Kenneth Pittman, he outlines various risks to being a shareholder, including trial failure, market weakness, failure of other RNAi trials by other companies and risks to its partnerships. I would like to discuss in much greater depth the cash position of the company, as this is the best gauge for share price risk (i.e. dilution).
Cash position
The company is burning cash. At the end of the second quarter, the company had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $11.9 million, compared to $14.4 million cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at December 31, 2013. This is an average burn of $1.25 million a quarter after factoring in all sources of income and expenses, but is actually higher than that, as I will outline.
Burning cash
Overall, the company had net loss of $2.0 million in the second quarter, which is exactly what it lost in the same quarter a year ago. For all of 2014, the company has lost $4.3 million, compared to a net loss of $16.4 million in the first 6 months of 2013. There is some improvement there, but the decrease in net loss was because of a charge of $12.3 million in the first quarter of 2013, when the company bought all of Opko Health's (OPKO) RNAi-related assets. When we look at the loss applicable to shareholders, it was $3.2 million in the quarter, compared to a net loss of $4.4 million for the comparable period in 2013. The change year-over-year was the result of a decrease in dividends paid to preferred shareholders.
Research and administrative expenses
Like with other developmental-stage companies, there is no income, just expenses as the company moves to develop its technology. For RXi Pharmaceuticals, research and development expenses were $1.2 million in the second quarter, matching the $1.2 million in the same quarter in 2013. General and administrative expenses were $0.9 million in the quarter, compared to $1.0 million in 2013. Thus, considering the company is spending roughly $2.2 million a quarter and it has $11 million in cash, assuming spending is constant (which it will not be), then the company would be out of cash in late 2015. Therefore, either more partnerships need to be entered into, the company will have to secure a loan, or most likely, will have to issue shares, which can keep a lid on share prices.
Conclusion
In my opinion, the sell-off is overdone. The data is promising. Of course, the future of the company rests with the Phase 2 trials, but given the results of the Phase 1 trials, it is quite possible the Phase 2 trials will succeed. So long as the company can control expenses and release impressive results, this stock could move substantially higher. On that note, the average analyst price target (and I usually ignore these on principle) is over $10.00, good enough for a five-bagger, should they be reached. As always, do your own research and due diligence, but I like the company here.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091717:30
SYMBOL = RST
Rosetta Stone’s latest quarter brought a decline of 6% in the revenue.
Cheaper mobile apps are taking over the company’s business. Internet piracy is also an additional concern.
The industry has been performing well, indicating Rosetta Stone’s own failure to deliver optimum returns.
Parallel to clever buying decisions, shorting underperforming stocks at the right time helps maximize investment returns. One such stock to sell right now is of Rosetta Stone (NYSE:RST). The company's share value has gone down by 43% in a year. The company is a leading provider of technology-based solutions for learning languages. However, it hasn't been able to perform well financially, owing to the factors which are out of its domain. An example would be internet piracy, through which the company's products are being downloaded with Rosetta Stone receiving not even a single penny at its end.
In this article, I will analyze the company's financial stance by looking at its latest quarterly performance. After that, I will discuss the factors which should outline the future prospects of the company.
Second Quarter
During the period, the company's revenue declined by 6% to $57.3 million on a year-over-year basis. From a geographical point of view, both the domestic and international market posted double-digit fall in revenue. The company tried to improve its volume sold by running promotional activities but all its efforts went in vain as revenue kept on declining. The promotional activities eventually led the average revenue per product "ARPU" to fall by 13% to $238.
Certainly, from all perspectives, the top line for Rosetta Stone was found crumbling in its latest quarter. The ARPU isn't expected to stay at its current level. This is because longer promotional periods and deeper discounting will further have a negative impact on the ARPU in the future. My opinion can be confirmed through the company's statement:
Although the company is testing strategies to mitigate the downward trend in prices, in the near term the company expects ARPU to decline continuously.
This virtually leaves no room for growth. A company needs either the volume or the price to grow, in order to sustain its revenue stream. However, since both of them are on decline, I do not see any other way through which the company can increase its revenue, other than choosing to make profitable acquisitions.
Needless to say, the company has not been making the best use of its acquisitions either. To give an example, Rosetta Stone acquired LiveMocha last year. Even after its acquisition, the company has still not been able to make a mobile app available. Conversely, LiveMocha's users have been continuously asking for one.
Rivals have been taking advantage of this weak spot. They have developed apps and have obtained the design and usability of Rosetta Stone for a bare fraction of the cost. An example would be Duolingo, a free app that is benefiting and even beating Rosetta Stone at its own game. This lack of focus has resulted in peers performing better than Rosetta Stone (see graph above). Revenue growth for the industry is 12% on average for the past three years. Rosetta Stone, on the other hand, has given an increment of only 0.7%. The other most important measure is the return on equity, which has been negative 36.8% even when the industry has given a positive result. This implies that Rosetta Stone's failure to accommodate the growing needs of the customers has resulted in a poor performance being provided to the investors.
Another point worth mentioning is internet piracy. Free downloadable content is resulting in loss of millions to Rosetta Stone. Last year, a man admitted that he downloaded the pirated versions of Rosetta Stone's products and then copied the programs onto compact discs in order to sell the discs to online customers at prices of more than 50% of the suggested retail price. The convict admitted that he made at least $100,000 out of this scheme. This isn't a one-time event, as there have been several other cases in the past.
In the future, greater accessibility to lower cost and free products on the internet will continue putting higher pricing pressure and will create further problems for the company. Falling ARPU is already an example to consider.
As a result, future estimates for the company have been reduced further. The company is now expected to deliver a loss of $1.95 and $0.89 per share in 2014 and 2015 respectively, down from negative $1.26 and $0.58 per share, estimated two months ago.
The company doesn't provide any dividend to console stock holders who have been affected through the share value drop. With the future earnings forecast being negative, and the industry performing better than Rosetta Stone, it is better that investors short the company from their portfolio and consider other investments in the same industry. Rosetta Stone holds a sell rating.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091716:28
SYMBOL = MSFT
Citigroup expects Microsoft to boost payouts to investors this month, anticipating a big dividend increase.
I certainly agree that the company has the capacity to do so, and am cautious on the prospects for the business as well.
Operating assets have risen nearly 50% in value over the past year on the exit of Ballmer and incoming CEO Nadella, therefore I remain cautious.
Analysts at Citigroup believe that Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) has the capacity and is willing to increase the payouts to investors given the strong free cash flows and the comfortable cash holdings of the company.
While Microsoft very much has the ability to hike payouts to investors, in a move that could indeed boost the dividend yield towards 3%, I am very cautious at current levels. Operating assets have nearly increased by 50% in value over the past twelve months, making the risk-reward not so appealing in my eyes.
Bullish On Capital Returns
Citigroup's Walter H. Pritchard believes that Microsoft will catch up with other large technology companies in the form of returning capital through share buybacks and dividends.
Pritchard sees Microsoft potentially increasing its dividend by a quarter to $1.40 per share, perhaps setting a free cash-flow payout target of 70% for 2015, up from 58% at the moment.
Pritchard furthermore notes that other large technology names are paying out up to 83% of their cash flows for this year, and that the large run-up of Microsoft's share price over the past year has increased the expectations for a big dividend raise.
Pritchard acknowledges the huge $86 billion in cash balances, but at the same time stresses that just 10% of these balances are held in the US, with just a quarter of free cash flows being generated in the US. As he believes Microsoft is unlikely to repatriate cash given the high tax penalties, the payouts depend largely on how much Microsoft is willing to borrow.
If the company wants to maintain its investment-grade credit rating, it is probably going to have to keep its debt below the $50 billion mark. Even so, Microsoft is able to boost the payouts to 70%-80% of free cash flows, which still allows for great financial flexibility to be used for acquisitions, among other activities.
Despite the upbeat comments about potential dividend hikes, Pritchard maintains his neutral stance on the company's shares, which was accompanied by a $41 price target, quite a bit below the current share price.
History Of Growth, Recently Driven By Margin-Dilutive Hardware Operations
Microsoft has demonstrated solid growth over the past decade, more than doubling its operations from $40 billion in sales in 2005 to nearly $87 million over the past year. It should be noted that the acquired Nokia (NYSE:NOK) business was only included for a small portion of the past fiscal year. This implies an average compounded growth rate in terms of revenues of 8% over this timeframe.
Besides the acquired activities from Nokia, other hardware sales have boosted growth over this time period as well, including the Surface tablet and the Xbox gaming console, although the profit contribution from these activities is very limited.
Given the lack of profitability of the hardware activities, it is Microsoft's core software assets that have grown earnings over this time period. The Windows consumer and business operating system remains a real cash cow, as do the server activities.
Net earnings therefore trailed revenue growth, with earnings increasing from roughly $12 billion to little over $22 billion over this time period, implying an average growth in earnings of about 6% per annum. It should be noted that net earnings growth has been aided by effective tax rates, which have steadily fallen towards 20% of operating earnings, as earnings on a per share basis have improved significantly as Microsoft has repurchased nearly a quarter of its outstanding share base.
At the end of the year, Microsoft held $85.7 billion in cash and equivalents, which compares to "just" $37.8 billion almost a decade ago. It should be stressed that the company at the time, that is 2005, had no debt outstanding, while the current leverage position stands at $22.6 billion following the borrowings required to pay out dividends and repurchase shares. Of course, the capital structure results from the tax code, which calls for big cash repatriation charges if Microsoft were to bring the cash home.
As such, the net cash position has increased to $63.1 billion at the moment, increasing by some $25 billion over this entire time period.
Implications Of A Potential Higher Payout
Given the current earnings of about $22 billion per annum, a potential 70% payout ratio would result in payouts being equivalent to $15 billion-$16 billion per annum.
Currently Microsoft pays out $0.28 per share in quarterly dividends and an anticipated hike of 25%, as analysts at Citigroup expect, would result in a payout of $1.40 per annum. In terms of real money, this results in a $11 billion-$12 billion cash outflow based on 8.3 billion shares outstanding at the moment.
This results in a payout ratio of about 50%, leaving another $4 billion in potential share repurchases. This appears consistent with the much more modest pace of share repurchases since 2011, with Microsoft not even repurchasing a percent of its annual outstanding share base per annum since 2011.
Microsoft's shares have been on fire, and it is not necessarily due to the purchase of Minecraft or Nokia, but appears to have everything to do with Steve Ballmer's departure and incoming CEO Satya Nadella's warm welcome from the investment community.
Consequently, shares have already risen over 40% over the past twelve months, which is a huge move for such a giant. Following the run-up to current levels at $47 per share, equity in the business is valued at close to $390 billion, which values net operating assets at some $327 billion. In comparison, shares traded around $33 per share at this time last year. This implied a valuation of about $280 billion at the time, or roughly $220 billion excluding net cash holdings.
Based on these metrics, the increase in value of the operating assets has been even greater, coming in at close to 50% over the past year. Consequently, shares are now valued at roughly 15 times earnings after backing out the full cash position, without taking into account the limitations of the debt. Microsoft has built up a debt position in recent years given the lack of domestic cash holdings, which limits financial flexibility somewhat given that it has to pay a spread in terms of paying out greater rates on debt, than interest received on its investments.
Even if the dividend hike would occur as anticipated, the dividend yield of 3.0% is attractive but not sufficient as a stand-alone argument. The increased valuation multiples have increased the expectations for further growth as well, as shares now almost trade at market-equivalent earnings multiples after backing out the cash. While the core seems solid for now, Microsoft still relies heavily on servers and Office, with cloud being promising and small, and hardware generally being a distraction and loss-making.
You get the point. Microsoft continues to move along just fine and surely has the capacity to return more cash to investors. That being said, after a 50% run-up over the past year, the risk-reward at current levels is not that appealing.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091716:25
SYMBOL = GD
While the geopolitical turmoil in Ukraine, Gaza, Iraq and Syria has so far been nearly ignored by the markets, one industry – aerospace and defense - is a clear beneficiary.
That 1980s bogeyman, the Russian bear, has returned and U.S. military intervention against ISIS may be looming.
General Dynamics, one of the world’s largest defense contractors, has been on a recent tear, with its stock price having surged 33% YTD.
"Buy on the sound of cannons," indeed.
By Steven Carroll
Despite the doom and gloom forecasts that have enveloped the sector since 2008, revenue has held up surprisingly well - and there are always new large-scale projects (long range bombers, army vehicles, cyber warfare) on which governments are going to spend money.
Here's an example: despite its well-known frugality, the U.K. coalition government recently awarded GD a £3.5 billion contract to supply 589 Scout specialist vehicles to the British Army between 2017 and 2024. Given the wear and tear on both British and American military vehicles in the Middle East and Asia, this represents a major opportunity for GD.
High scores for GD
Indeed, given the Obama administration's increased assertiveness in foreign policy, one could almost claim to see some turnaround in defense spending after five lean years, especially if Mr. Putin's strategy backfires to the point where NATO members undertake a more fundamental reappraisal of their limited defense budgets.
GD's price performance certainly indicates some enthusiasm from the market - the company scores in the top 1% for price momentum in North America, and as you can see in the below screenshot from Thomson Reuters Eikon - the company gets great scores on almost every metric. One cautious note, however - although Val-Mo is high, most of that score is momentum, not valuation.
Institutional love
The Smart Holdings score suggests a strong likelihood of increased institutional ownership, though that is based on GD having attractive metrics that seem to be in vogue with institutional asset managers, not the more thematic story described above. For the curious, GD scores well on these metrics: price momentum, interest coverage and trailing ROE.
The debt picture
Credit markets are also enthusiastic, with the Markit 5-year CDS trading at recent lows, implying little market concern about default probability. GD's debt structure is also attractive, with the majority of debt instruments maturing far into the future (see chart below). GD also scores well from an earnings quality standpoint, with the cash flow component (measuring free cash flow) in the top 10% for North America, and well above industry median levels.
Portfolio performer?
Whether you prefer more thematic investing, qualitative or quantitative, given the uncertainty in the world today and the significant chance of increased volatility - GD looks like an interesting portfolio addition that may help weather the ups and downs more effectively.
It may not win a place in the hearts of most environmental, social and governance (ESG)-focused investors due to its focus on combat systems, but for the more pragmatic who just want a solid return profile, this could be a strong performer in uncertain times.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091716:59
SYMBOL = SDRL
Seadrill's shares suffered a sell-off on possible impact of sanctions in Russia and fears about the sustainability of the dividend.
Seadrill makes a big bet on the health of the drilling market in 2016.
Until then, the company is in a good position to raise funds and support its newbuild program and the dividend.
A new round of U.S. and EU sanctions on Russia triggered a massive sell-off in Seadrill's (NYSE: SDRL) shares. There are three interconnected reasons for the recent downside. First, sanctions could hurt Seadrill's deals with Exxon Mobil (NYSE: XOM) and Rosneft. The fear of sanctions was intensified after the release of a widely discussed Bloomberg article, in which Seadrill's John Fredriksen stated that sanctions against Russia could affect the company's $4.25 billion deal with Rosneft. Second, the drilling market looks soft while Seadrill has a plethora of new rigs coming in 2015. The risk of losing deals with Rosneft in combination with muted outlook for the drilling market has prompted many market observers to question the sustainability of Seadrill's dividend. The sustainability of the dividend is probably the main factor that affects Seadrill's valuation, as the company's hefty yield attracts many income investors.
Seadrill's share price was $30.75 at the moment of writing this article. At this price, Seadrill's quarterly dividend of $1.00 per share translates into an annual yield of 13.00%. This makes Seadrill very attractive if the company manages to sustain the dividend.
According to the company's second-quarter report, Seadrill has 468.9 million shares outstanding. Thus, the company has to spend $1.876 billion on dividend payments annually. The company generated $881 million of operating cash flow in the first half of the year. Sanctions and the softening drilling market could hurt the company's bottom line, but at least in the near term, the dividend is more dependent on Seadrill's ability to refinance rather than its operating cash flows. Seadrill has always been very aggressive in its growth strategy, and used a mix of bank financing, bonds and MLP dropdowns to finance its growth. As a result, Seadrill had $2.15 billion of current debt and $10 billion of long-term debt at the end of the second quarter. In order to pay for newbuild rigs, Seadrill will have to continue raising funds. Even if sanctions hurt Seadrill, the dividend will be the last thing to suffer. Savings from a dividend cut are miniscule compared to the company's debt load and funding requirements.
The only reason why Seadrill would choose to cut its dividend is to save money. Let's look at the effect of possible dividend cuts in terms of freeing money and the resulting annual yields on the stock.
Thus, by cutting the dividend by as much as 20%, the company will free up $375 million annually. This is not a significant number compared to Seadrill's liabilities. My point is that it is much easier for the company to fill the possible income gap created by sanctions with another MLP dropdown or debt rather than cut the dividend.
Let's now get to the most feared scenario. It is assumed that when a dividend cut happens, investors sell their shares. However, the calculations below show that Seadrill's dividend yield remains attractive even if the buying price was relatively high.
With all those rigs coming in 2015, Seadrill is making a big bet on the drilling market recovery in 2016. If the drilling market will be soft in 2016, Seadrill will experience problems with refinancing. However, if we look at a one-year time horizon, Seadrill is in good shape. Even if the drilling market is troubled in 2016, this fact will be known closer to the end of 2015. Until then, the hefty yield looks sustainable and will attract income investors, supporting shares of Seadrill.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091717:04
SYMBOL = JCI
Johnson Controls is diversifying its portfolio and turning itself into a multi-faceted company.
The company has made several strategic changes to reduce its exposure to the cyclical automotive industry while gaining a foothold in the building efficiency business.
Johnson Controls is also changing its geographic mix and expanding into the high-growth Chinese market, where it is projected to generate revenues at a CAGR of 11.66%.
Johnson Controls (NYSE:JCI), widely known as an auto supplier, is now turning itself into a multi-faceted company. Under the leadership of its new CEO, Alex Molinaroli, the company has made several strategic changes, including the change in the revenue mix and geographic mix.
As part of the restructuring, the company sold its automotive electronics business to Visteon, and is now focusing on the expansion of its building-efficiency portfolio. Through these strategic changes, Johnson Controls will reduce its exposure to the cyclical and lower-profit automotive industry, and redesign itself into a conglomerate.
These strategic changes are projected to create a loss of $5 billion in annual sales from the automotive industry and gain $3 billion from products sold to the building efficiency markets. However, it is expected that the company's margins will expand after the restructuring, consequently improving per share earnings.
Change in Revenue Mix
As part of its building-efficiency portfolio expansion, Johnson Controls acquired Air Distribution Technologies, a Texas air ventilation company, for $1.6 billion. Air Distribution Technologies is one of the largest independent providers of air-distribution and ventilation products in North America. The company also provides facilities in China, India, and the Middle East.
Air Distribution Technologies's business is in alliance with Johnson Controls's current business, but there is a very little overlap between the products and sales channel. Therefore, the acquisition would provide Johnson Controls with the opportunity to both expand its portfolio and its geographic presence.
After the transaction, Jonson Controls's dependence on the automotive industry would further reduce, and about 40% of its revenues will be generated from the building efficiency business. It is projected that Air Distribution Technologies would generate approximately $920 million in FY14.
To expand the building efficiency portfolio, Johnson Controls also entered into a strategic alliance with Hitachi. The collaboration will enable both companies to jointly work on several projects planned in the U.S. and Singapore.
As commercial construction activity in both the U.S. and Chinese markets, the company's major markets, is expected to grow in the future, the company's expansion of its building-efficiency portfolio will help to grab more opportunities, eventually generating stronger revenues. Molinaroli's expertise in the building efficiency business will further benefit the company.
Change in Geographic Mix
As a part of its restructuring plan, Johnson Controls is also changing its geographic mix. The company has been expanding its business in the fast-growing Chinese auto market, the world's largest market, which has an annual production of 22 million vehicles. According to the company's CEO, China is the only place where the company would be making more investments in automotive sector. As a result of the change in geographic mix, Johnson Controls has planned to start a "second corporate headquarters" in Shanghai, and decided to base two of its 16 corporate officers in China.
To gain a foothold in the region, Johnson Controls announced the opening of a new battery plant in the country in the third quarter of FY14, which is projected to produce 6 million automotive batteries per year. The company already has a major automotive battery plant in eastern China, from where it produces around 8 million batteries per year.
Moreover, Johnson Controls also made a Shanghai-based joint venture with Yanfeng Automotive Trim Systems, which will supply instrument panels, door panels, and a variety of other car interior components. Johnson Controls will have a 30% stake in the venture. The venture will enable the company to participate in the rapid growth industry without making significant capital investments. Instead, the company will be able to allocate capital to other ventures.
Currently, Johnson Controls has approximately $7 billion of its total business in China. In the third quarter of FY14, demand in the company's automotive business was driven mainly by China. The region contributed $1.8 billion (about 32%) to the division's total revenue of $5.7 billion.
Thanks to its new ventures, it is anticipated that Johnson Controls will experience an increase in both the revenues and the profits, as the strength in the Chinese market and the margins in its auto industry will continue. According to the company's management, the revenues from the Chinese division will reach approximately $12.5 billion in FY18, compared to $7.2 billion in FY13, growing at a CAGR of 11.66%.
Alex Molinaroli is effectively reducing Johnson Controls's dependence on the cyclical automotive industry, making the company's future revenue and profit growth more certain. Through the changes made in revenue mix, the company will lose $2 billion revenues annually, but at the same time its margins will expand, resulting in higher profits. Currently, the building efficiency industry is growing at a faster pace than the automotive industry, which will create more growth opportunities for Johnson Controls. Therefore, it is anticipated that the company's revenues will also expand in the coming years on the back of these opportunities.
The company's plan to expand into the high-growth Chinese market is also a wise decision, as the region generates a good chunk of the company's revenues. The projected revenue growth in China is also quite impressive. Therefore, the geographical expansion will expand the company's top line as well as bottom line in the upcoming years.
Currently, Johnson Controls is experiencing deteriorating margins due to its ongoing restructuring, but once the restructuring is complete, the margins will expand again. The margin and revenue expansion due to geographical and portfolio changes will bring handsome returns for both the company and the investors.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091713:16
SYMBOL = IBM
IBM is "selling" its semiconductor operation.
GlobalFoundries is the likely catcher of this boat anchor.
Intel is now the clear leader in semiconductor technology.
Recently, there has been a great deal of chatter about IBM Corp. (NYSE:IBM) "selling" its money-losing semiconductor operation. The buyer mentioned is GlobalFoundries. Selling, in this case, is an interesting term, since the discussion is IBM is offering "inducement" money to GlobalFoundries to take the "steaming pile" that is IBM semiconductor away from the rest of IBM. This is pretty much in the same category as paying Waste Management (NYSE:WM) to remove your garbage.
At one time, IBM manufactured more semiconductors than the entire merchant producers combined. The decline of IBM semiconductor has taken 35 years. In this same time frame, Intel has grown from a small, struggling company to a $55 billion world-leading powerhouse of semiconductor technology. In the same time, TSMC (NYSE:TSM) has gone from a dead stop to over $20 billion in the semiconductor foundry business.
Recently, IBM had led what was called the "Common Platform" group to standardize the semiconductor foundry processes. IBM proposed "gate first" processing, and the rest of the industry (except Intel and TSMC) followed it like sheep. My take on the gate first decision by IBM is that it felt the end of Moore's Law was at hand at somewhere around the 65nm node. It was wrong. Dead wrong, as it turns out.
Intel, on the other hand, went "gate last" in its processing technology. At the time, gate last was more complex and more expensive to produce. What was Intel thinking? Remember, these decisions were being formed in the 2005-2006 time frame for the 2008 final decision. Gate first does not work for TriGate (finfet) transistors. Let me repeat that, gate first does not work for TriGate transistors. Intel knew that TriGate technology was on its internal and very confidential process roadmap and, with that knowledge, the adoption of gate first would stop scaling progress at 32nm. IBM and the Common Platform members had no idea what was coming.
In May of 2011, Intel announced that the 22nm node would not only be a shrink, but that it would be the first implementation of TriGate transistors. It only took one sentence for me to say that Intel had moved to TriGate transistors, but the impact of that decision is nothing short of historic for the semiconductor industry. There will be thick, difficult-to-read books written on the TriGate research, decision process and the after-decision technical progress on TriGate.
What was TSMC doing all this time? Apparently, arguing internally over the relative merits of gate first vs. gate last. The story goes that Morris Chang (one of the real giants of the semiconductor industry) called a day-long meeting with his technology leaders to discuss how to proceed. It is said that the team was split between gate first and gate last. At the end of the meeting, Morris stood up and asked, "What is Intel doing?" He was told that Intel was going gate last. Morris responded, "Then do that."
Cute story. Is it true? Who knows? All we know is that both Intel and TSMC went gate last. Intel, because it knew TriGate was coming; TSMC, because Intel was doing gate last.
So, the current situation is, GlobalFoundries is being bribed to take the IBM semiconductor operation off IBM's hands, and is actually considering trying to catch this IBM anchor.
TSMC is slugging it out with 20nm planar technology, spending an unsustainable amount of money to not fall further behind.
Samsung is scratching its corporate head wondering whether to compete with Intel or spend its money on more memory capacity. I think I know how that decision will go - not good for the other memory guys.
Intel is the clear leader in semiconductor technology, shipping its second-generation TriGate process in large production volumes. The fastest followers are not expected to ship a finfet-based product until 2016, if ever. That puts Intel four-plus years ahead of the nearest competitor.
What caused me to write this article was a piece by Dan Nenni of SemiWiki. Dan and I have a strange relationship - he doesn't know me and I don't know him, he doesn't like me and I don't like him.
Dan is involved in the fabless semiconductor business up to his ears. This latest pieces claims that the IBM bribe to GlobalFoundries is now up to "over $2 billion."
Read the Nenni piece slowly and a couple of times. What he is trying to say and what he actually says are very different. He understands that the foundry business competes on price, and this will likely only get worse with the IBM boat anchor hanging around GlobalFoundries' neck. To me, the conclusion is that the foundry business will be forced, by financial forces, to give up the bleeding edge of semiconductor technology to Intel. That doesn't mean that the foundry business is dead - it will continue to be a vital force in the industry. Fabless semiconductor companies will learn that, in the very largest, bleeding-edge businesses, competing with Intel using the two-step foundry model as a money sewer.
Investment advice:
Buy Intel stock or options.
No position on TSMC.
I think IBM is in a secular decline. Sales have declined for three years. For IBM to give up a defining technology like semiconductors smacks of Kodak and Control Data. From here, any financial engineering at IBM to prop up earnings is at its limit. Short IBM outright, or buy 20% out of the money put LEAPs. I will be playing IBM puts during earnings, since I think it will become a serial disappointer.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091713:31
SYMBOL = TSLA
Tesla recently saw a big dip in shares after a Morgan Stanley piece.
Tesla recently won its Massachusetts court battle.
Long term, the stock looks strong and this is a buying opportunity.
Recently Morgan Stanley sounded the alarm bells over Tesla Motors' (NASDAQ:TSLA) steady march higher and caused the stock to decline by 9.1%. The analyst, Mr. Jonas, made clear that Morgan is still a believer in the stock, but it concurs with CEO Elon Musk that the rise has been overdone. While there is some validity to the "sobering factors" raised in the report, when you consider the overall position of Tesla coupled with its recent win in the Massachusetts courts, the decline presents a buying opportunity, particularly for long-term buyers. Tesla should be considered as much a tech company as an automaker and, as such, deserves a core position in your technology portfolio.
Sober Does Not Mean Bad
There were four primary factors offered by Jonas as to why the rise in Tesla shares should be viewed with some skepticism, including: the overall position of the electric vehicle (EV) industry, the demand for EVs in China, the perceived inability of Tesla to produce a mass market product, and the potential that human driving is not facing a limited lifetime. In general, the industry has been slow to develop, explaining why Musk recently opened Tesla's patent portfolio up completely - more success for other car makers will likely spur on the infrastructure needed to make the industry grow. Jonas cited Tesla's inability to meet the full demand of vehicles wanted in China, but did not give a compelling reason why this was so problematic. As to the end of human driving, Jonas offered a 15-year timeline, so this is arguably well beyond a reasonable investment horizon.
The Court Tide Turns
Amongst some of the other challenges facing Tesla, the EV maker has faced a series of lawsuits by auto dealer associations in various states alleging that the company's direct sales approach violates state laws. Earlier this week, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court threw out the case on the grounds that the plaintiffs lacked standing, a legal principle which allows a party to bring suit. The better news for Tesla was comments made by Justice Margot Botsford, stating that the law "was intended and understood only to prohibit manufacturer-owned dealerships when, unlike Tesla, the manufacturer already had an affiliated dealer or dealers in Massachusetts." Her opinion went on to say: "Contrary to the plaintiffs' assertion. The type of competitive injury they describe between unaffiliated entities is not within the statute's area of concern."
Several of the laws under which suits in other cases are proceeding have very similar constructions, so the Massachusetts decision provides some direction to other states. If other states choose to follow this interpretation, a potentially serious obstacle to Tesla's sales efforts will be removed. Largely as a result of the announcement concerning the gigafactory, the Nevada auto dealers recently dropped their suit.
The Long Term Looks Strong
In the Morgan report, Jonas emphasized that the firm was not changing its tune on Tesla: "We are big believers in Tesla's strategy and stand firmly by our claim that it is the world's most important car company." Morgan is maintaining its overweight rating and keeping the $320 price target previously set. I continue to believe that the company's recent guidance will hold, and that when Musk cooled expectations on the stock, it was in hopes of managing expectations. Allowing shares to reach "bubble" heights could leave Tesla with an unneeded black eye, particularly when the Nevada tax breaks were still being inked. Over the next several months and quarters, Tesla shares should perform. As such, the pullback should be considered a buying opportunity not a reversal in the stock.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091714:29
SYMBOL = GIS
Shares of General Mills took a beating after the business reported revenue and earnings that fell short of analyst estimates.
This idea supports my view that the company is unlikely to make you rich quickly, but brings to question whether the business offers the stability I anticipated.
In my previous work on General Mills, I did not expect its metrics to fall so much, but I did not leave out the possibility that the quarter appears dour.
Shares of General Mills (NYSE:GIS), one of the world's largest consumer foods companies, dropped around 4% on Sep. 17 after news broke that the business's revenue and earnings for the first quarter of its 2015 fiscal year came in lower than expected. According to its press release, revenue was $4.27 billion. This represents a more than 2% decline compared to the $4.37 billion seen in last year's quarter and missed the $4.38 billion analysts anticipated. Based on the data provided, the sole contributor to this drop in sales was the business's U.S. Retail segment, which saw its top line fall 5% as price realization, product mix, and lower volume hit the company where it hurts.
From a profit standpoint, the picture was even worse. For the quarter, General Mills reported earnings per share of $0.55. This represents a 21% drop compared to the $0.70 seen in last year's quarter and easily missed the $0.69 Mr. Market expected. In addition to being negatively affected by lower revenue, General Mills' bottom line was harmed by its cost of goods sold, which rose from 63.1% of sales to 66.3%.
In a previous article, I highlighted that General Mills will likely be a good, stable prospect for the long run, but that it's unlikely to make investors rich anytime soon. While this earnings release might throw the first part of this thesis in doubt, the fact still remains that its long run performance will likely continue to enrich investors, but that other businesses exist, both within and outside of this industry, that could make for better prospects.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091715:15
SYMBOL = ADBE
Adobe reported a top line miss, and guidance for next quarter wasn't that great.
The investment thesis still holds, as the results didn't negate the long-term growth trajectory of earnings by much.
Investors should be opportunistic buyers following the 4.64% pull-back in the after hours.
Adobe (NASDAQ:ADBE) reported earnings, and I guess the top line figure just barely missed by a narrow sliver of a margin. The company reported $1.005B versus the consensus analyst estimate of $1.02B. The difference in the actual figure from the consensus was a whopping $15 million for the quarter.
Going into 2014, this was one of my better performing recommendations, and as you can tell from the below chart, it has had quite a bit of a ride.
As you can tell, the stock has rallied for most of 2014. The stock started to decline in the middle of the year, but it eventually moved up into the $70-$73 range. However, the stock started to consolidate, as there weren't a whole lot of catalysts that could drive the stock much higher.
Earlier in the year here's what I stated:
For calendar year 2014, I offer a $76.01 price target at 69.1 P/E (high valuations are likely to persist). My 2015 price target is $89.18 at 44.59 P/E, and my 2016 price target is $133.69 at 44.59 P/E. The stock has 120% upside from its current price of $60.89.
I think the stock should be able to exhibit further appreciation as Adobe Creative Cloud becomes a bigger component of the sales mix. The software as a service model tends to deflate revenue in the near-term, but comes with the benefit of higher revenue recognition as the total sales per user figure becomes larger versus a perpetual licensing model. Furthermore, the operating margin should improve as buyers become more aware of the cloud based offering, which will diminish marketing spend, which will boost the earnings figure in future quarters.
The guidance for the quarter wasn't that hot. According to SA, "Guidance is on the light side, with FQ4 revenue expected at $1.025B-$1.075B vs. the Street outlook of $1.09B, and EPS of $0.26-$0.32 vs. the Street at $0.31."
Investors are very sensitive to earnings misses and beats on high growth names, as they're already trading at a premium. A slight miss will have a significant impact on sentiment. However, guidance for the next quarter doesn't negate the long-term investment thesis, and it's likely that financial performance will improve considerably going into fiscal year 2015. Therefore, I have no reason to believe the recent downward move in the stock price will be permanent, and I think investors can opportunistically buy on pull backs.
According to Adobe's press release:
"In Q3, 63 percent of our revenue was recurring, demonstrating the continued success of our business model transformation," said Mark Garrett, executive vice president and chief financial officer, Adobe. "In addition to momentum with Creative Cloud adoption, our team drove strong bookings growth with Adobe Marketing Cloud."
The continued uptake in subscription-based revenue should be interpreted positively, and I also think that further migration to the cloud should be seen positively, and it will generate much better looking comps as the sales mix moves away from an up-front licensing model to a continuous subscription stream, which will drive 19.6% revenue growth in the next fiscal year. The trickle down of added revenue, paired with some efficiency gains should drive significant EPS growth of approximately 70% in the next fiscal year.
I reiterate my $76 price target, and I think the investment is a long-term buy. I think investors can be opportunistic buyers at $67. The stock may exhibit a late year rally, which could drive the stock up by an additional 13.4%. Most of this move would be driven by earnings multiple expansion, which would be a function of improving market sentiment on aggregate. I don't think the stock will have any notable near-term catalysts, so I wouldn't anticipate much more upside beyond $76.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091715:35
SYMBOL = GME
2014 sales at GameStop are supported by sales of PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, but its other major profit centers, new software and used sales, are under assault from digital.
The shift to digital continues to accelerate with Activision’s CEO noting last week that digital sales of its game Destiny were exceeding expectations.
EA Access and similar subscription services that provide access to older games will erode used game sales at GameStop - used sales account for ~50% of profits.
We estimate it has a market share under 10% in digital software sales versus ~30% in physical. The shift to digital presents a significant headwind for GameStop.
The upside surprise in the current cycle has pushed the shares higher. However, this is temporary, and the long-term concerns will return and put downward pressure on the stock.
GameStop (NYSE:GME) has benefited this year from the introduction of the next generation of video game consoles, Sony's PlayStation 4 and Microsoft's Xbox One (NASDAQ:MSFT). However, software sales are weak, and we are concerned that the shift to digital will generate ongoing headwinds for some time at GameStop and other video game retailers. .
Digital Long-term Threat to the GameStop's Business Model
While we are not ready to say that video game retailers go the way of Blockbuster, the threat is there. Digital sales represent a clear threat to the business model for both new and used game sales. Consumers continue to buy and consume more media content online and video games are just the latest to start seeing an accelerating shift to digital.
Full-title Digital Sales will Increase, Negative for Sales at GameStop
Consumers are increasingly downloading video game titles digitally and not buying the physical games. The publishers like Electronic Arts (NASDAQ:EA) and Activision Blizzard (NASDAQ:ATVI) prefer digital sales since they carry higher margins. Consumers like the convenience and typically lower cost while still getting the same full title. At Electronic Arts, digital sales accounted for 46% of sales in 2014 versus 23% in 2011. In addition, 92% of all PC video game sales are now digital. Console related games sales, the important piece to GameStop, should follow suit.
On Friday, September 12, 2014 Activision's CEO Robert Kotick stated that digital sales of its title Destiny were outperforming due to higher digital downloads of the full title. Mr. Kotick said, "In Activision's history, more copies were sold directly to the consumer through digital download than in any other product launch we've had."
Management provided the preceding chart at their Investor Day in April. While it shows growth, GameStops market share is far below their share of physical sales. We did the following estimates of GameStops market share in digital versus physical markets below. While it has a 28% share in the physical US market, it only has as 7.3% share in the US digital market. This has potentially changed, since the data we had access to is from 2012, not substantially enough to make us believe GameStops share is beyond the low teens at best. It is also noteworthy that we believe most of their online sales are not from full-title sales, the key component that is growing.
Market Share in Digital Software is Below Physical Software Sales
In August, EA launched a subscription service, EA Access, that provides access to older titles currently just on Xbox One. This is a threat to used game sales at GameStop, since consumers can get access to unlimited used titles for just $4.99 per month. Sony and Microsoft also offer older titles for a monthly subscription fee. It allows game makers to extend the shelf life of titles they would otherwise no longer make money from.
47% of 2013 Gross Profit from Used Sales
For GameStop, half of profits come from used game sales. The shift to a digital platform and relatively cheap access to older games is a clear hit to this portion of the business. This should be a significant cause for concern by investors for the coming years.
While management at GameStop stated on their 2Q14 conference call that their digital market share was in-line with their market share of physical sales, we do not view that as sustainable and question how that was calculated as we discussed earlier. Shifts in buying preferences and the introduction of services like EA Access represent threats to GameStop's digital market share. In addition, we question how management concluded they had a similar market share in digital.
Weak August Software Sales, Similar Expectation for September
NPD reported August video game sales were up 8% y/y on September 11, 2014. However, software sales are down 21% y/y. The lack of new titles was having the greatest impact versus August 2013. When new video game consoles are released, the introduction of new titles often lags as the video game designers take time to create games for the new systems.
September sales are again expected to decline due to a tough comp from 2013. In September 2013, Grand Theft Auto V was released and had retail sales of $800 million on the first day.
2Q Results Beat
GameStop reported 2Q14 EPS of $0.22, beating Street consensus by $0.06 and up from the $0.09 it earned in 2Q13. The operating margin was in line with consensus but sales were ahead of expectations due to higher new hardware and software sales Sales increased by 25% y/y to $1,731 million. Year-over-year hardware sales were up 125%, new software increased by 15.6%, and used products by 5.5%.
While the results in the quarter were solid, there was nothing in the quarter that made us more confident that GameStop can deal with the structural issues it is facing due to digital pressure on new and used software sales. The stronger than expected new console sales is understood and just a temporary boost to GameStop.
Weak Software Sales will weigh on 3Q Results
We estimate that hardware sales will more than double at GameStop in 3Q14 and used sales will increase modestly. However, we forecast a 30% decline in software. Taken together, we expect just a low single digit increase in same store sales at GameStop in 3Q.
Beyond, 3Q the outlook for software sales should improve with the introduction of new titles for PS4 and Xbox One accelerating. If software sales are higher than expected, this could act as a potential positive catalyst for the shares of GameStop. However, we would look at any positive move in the shares as a good opportunity to short the stock based on long-term threats to the business model.
The current upcycle in the industry behind the new consoles has supported sales at GameStop. Essentially, rising tides raised all ships, in this case video game retailers and publishers. However, we see this as temporary. The long-term secular trends towards digital will return and dominate the story, putting pressure on the shares of GameStop.
GameStop needs to position itself in an increasingly digital market, but we do not see a place for it. Its lower market share in digital sales will pressure sales as the sales channel shifts in this direction. The console makers and video game publishers can both sell content directly to consumers. Hence, there is little need in this market for another party, and we do not see how GameStop fits into the digital market long-term.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091715:47
SYMBOL = AAPL
Analysts and tech writers inflated the importance of the Apple/GTAT agreement by shifting focus to iPhone, a more important product than Apple Watch.
In order to support the iPhone sapphire screen theory, projections of sapphire production capacity were grossly overstated.
The letdown following the iPhone 6 event shouldn't blind investors to the future potential for sapphire in iPhone, but should make them more cautious.
While the September 9 event was a triumph for Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) and the stewardship of Tim Cook, it marked a setback for GT Advanced Technologies (GTAT). Since September 8, GTAT has fallen about 30%, merely as a consequence of Apple not using sapphire in iPhone 6. How the expectations of investors and Apple fans everywhere become so disconnected from reality is a question that I feel deserves more consideration than I've given it up until now.
The Big Promise
When the GTAT/Apple deal was announced last year, I immediately thought of what was then called iWatch. Sapphire had long been used for watch crystals, and I took this as a sign that iWatch was on its way. But almost immediately, focus in the media shifted to the iPhone. iWatch was still an unknown quantity with an unknown market potential, whereas iPhone was Apple's flagship product producing roughly half of Apple's revenue. Sapphire on iPhone was big, sapphire on iWatch, not so much.
And Apple seemed to have big plans for sapphire, buying a 1.3 million square foot building in Mesa, AZ, and hiring GTAT to equip and run the facility. By February, 9to5 Mac ran an article stating that Apple had procured enough sapphire production capacity to build 100-200 million iPhone screens per year. This seemed to settle the matter. The next iPhone would have sapphire screens.
The article quoted Matt Margolis, who also has contributed a number of bullish analyses of GTAT to Seeking Alpha. There have been many bullish articles on GTAT since the beginning of the year, but Margolis is noteworthy in the thoroughness of his research. Margolis also demonstrates how even well-done analysis can get things terribly wrong.
A good example of this is his April 27, 2014, article in which he reaches three remarkable conclusions:
1) The Mesa, AZ, facility likely had over 2,000 sapphire growth furnaces, with plans for another 700-1,000 to be installed.
2) GTAT had the ability to produce 500 furnaces per month.
3) The Mesa, AZ, facility reached full production by the end of March.
With 20/20 hindsight, it's obvious that none of these assertions were correct. Since Apple has no near-term plans to offer sapphire screen iPhones, the ~2,700 furnaces would be mostly excess capacity, since only about 100 furnaces are needed to support Apple Watch production, even assuming my lofty expectations of 10 million Watch sales per quarter. Since Apple didn't need 2,700 furnaces, it didn't need to have them installed at the rate of 500 per month. And finally, if the Mesa facility had been able to reach full production by the end of March, we would probably be seeing Apple Watch on store shelves in time for the holidays.
Even without the benefit of hindsight, the above three assertions should raise a number of red flags.
1) Such a huge number of furnaces would have placed an unacceptable burden on the power generating capacity of the greater Phoenix region. Using GTAT's electrical power specs for its Advanced Sapphire Furnace (80 KWatts), the power requirement to operate 2,700 of them I estimate would be about 200 MegaWatts, or about a quarter of the total output of a typical nuclear power plant. Most metropolitan areas don't have that much spare capacity, or even the transmission infrastructure to bring it in from other regions.
But there's another more compelling problem with the furnace number, and that is that it implies that the screens are solid sapphire. I doubt that Apple will ever build an iPhone with a solid sapphire screen because it simply isn't cost competitive with Gorilla Glass. The power required to produce bulk sapphire by the process that GTAT uses puts sapphire at a cost disadvantage relative to glass, and this cost disadvantage is inherent to the process and can't be overcome by scaling the number of furnaces. I discussed the power consumption and cost issue in my article "Corning's Results Suggest No Sapphire iPhone - This Year."
Apple's patent for a sapphire/glass laminate has the potential to solve this problem by simply reducing the quantity of sapphire required per phone. In conjunction with GTAT's Hyperion technique, which can produce extremely thin films of sapphire, this is probably the only path forward to a sapphire screen iPhone, and one I believe that Apple is actively pursuing. However, the sapphire laminate approach doesn't require anything close to the production capacity of 2,700 furnaces. In fact, probably only 200 furnaces would be needed to supply enough bulk sapphire to make the film.
But the sapphire film production and lamination techniques are still unproven for mass production, and this is another red flag that I'm sure Cook would not have been able to ignore. Cook made his mark at Apple in supply chain management, and he wouldn't have committed Apple's flagship product to an unproven technique. Even the sapphire production for Watch is something of a trial balloon.
2) GTAT is actually a rather small company, and for them to be able to produce 500 Advanced Sapphire Furnaces (ASFs) per month is almost ludicrous. According to GTAT's 2013 10-K, GTAT had only 116 manufacturing employees at the end of 2013. Even if GTAT could drop all its other product lines and devote its full manufacturing staff to producing AS Furnaces, it would have to produce one ASF per employee per week to meet the 500/month rate. An ASF is shown below, from an ASF product brochure:
These are not mass produced items. As described in the 10-K, the ASF is built on site from component parts manufactured abroad. The assembly work is almost all by hand. Even after assembly is completed, there follows a period of careful calibration and tuning in order to get to the point where the furnace is producing commercial grade material.
GTAT alludes to the challenges of getting the Mesa facility into production in the latest quarterly earnings report:
. . . the Company has expended significant capital resources in order convert the 1.3 million square foot building in Mesa, Arizona, ("the facility") into a sapphire growth and fabrication facility. During the three and six months ended June 28, 2014, the Company incurred significant costs in connection with inventory losses and production inefficiencies as a result of the qualification of sapphire growth and fabrication equipment and the establishment of production processes at the facility. Inventory losses include charges to write down ending inventory to net realizable value, losses realized on inventory produced not deemed to be saleable and inventory spoilage losses . . .
I estimate that GTAT would be able to assemble, test and fully qualify ASFs at a rate of about 10 per month.
3) In light of the considerations of 2), the idea that GTAT could reach full production on 1000s of ASFs in a mere three months is, to put it mildly, simply mind boggling. By the end of March, GTAT would have been able to begin qualifying its third batch of about 10 furnaces, providing some supplemental production capacity for the iPhone Touch ID sensors.
The Big Let Down
What I find fascinating about the sapphire screen fantasy is how uncritically it was embraced by analysts, investors and fans. People simply wanted to believe it. When the fantasy was inevitably shattered, it wasn't Apple that suffered, but GTAT.
GTAT investors are probably overreacting. As GTAT acknowledges in its quarterly report, the company is in the midst of managing a difficult transition from being a capital equipment company to being an optical materials producer. There was bound to be some learning curve associated with this.
Just because expectations were so overblown, I'm tempted to be contrarily bullish about GTAT. But not quite. The sapphire bulls at least got one thing right. What will really make it for GTAT is if they get sapphire on the iPhone. At this stage, there just isn't quite enough information to say that this will happen with certainty.
Investors need assurance that the sapphire film production technique really is scalable to mass production, and that GTAT has overcome its Mesa growing pains.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014070914:36
SYMBOL = FB
Facebook is the most dominant player in the budding social media industry.
Facebook has no debt and owns a wealth of high-tech intellectual property.
The stock is headed up in the long term with next to no bearish indicators.
On July 8th, Facebook (NASDAQ:FB) stock took a ~4.5% hit to go down to $62.5. As I write this, the stock has rebounded to ~$64.5. The stock may have taken a hit due to the recent news about the firm's 'emotional manipulation'. These allegations are founded but overhyped; every technology company mines its users for data. That's how they make money. I want to remind technology sector investors that we're dealing with a great company here: the current price may be a good point of entry if you're looking for a long-term play.
Market Power
Facebook is a behemoth in the social media industry. There is, quite literally, no other company like it. For some quick perspective, here's a chart of the market capitalization of Facebook and its biggest competitors. Facebook blows them out of the water! Even after a small share tumble, its market capitalization is immense. It's a whale swimming next to fish, and it gains certain leverage from this position. With 1.3 billion users, half of whom log on daily, it shouldn't come as a surprise.
Facebook's most recent debt-to-equity ratio is a whopping 0.0, with a profit margin of 25% to boot. These numbers are staggering, especially in context with their breakneck revenue growth. Clearly, Zuckerberg knows how to capitalize his business, while still maintaining growth.
Intellectual Property
Facebook has had a number of notable buyouts in the last several years. Although many of these are young upstarts, they show promise to integrate themselves into Facebook's data collection network and diversify their revenue streams.
FriendFeed: You probably didn't know that Facebook owned its own social media aggregator. Purchased back in 2009, this tool allows a user to combine inputs from a variety of social networks, including Facebook, in order to create their own custom news stream. As of this writing, it's number 1683 in terms of most popular websites in the world. And it's owned by Facebook.
Instagram: After Facebook, Instagram is the second most popular social networking website in the United States. Instagram is entirely focused on photographs, which users can edit in certain ways and then post on their profile. There is an option to integrate it partially with Facebook, but most users choose to keep the two separate. Either way, it's big. 42% of US teenagers use Instagram on their phones.
Face.com: Face.com is one of Facebook's more recent, clandestine, and expensive purchases. Bought for $100 million in late 2012, Face.com is a high-technology facial recognition service. The technology uses geometric figures on a large scale to map out user's faces - Facebook has used it to great effect in order to find out who's in a photograph whether or not they're 'tagged' or not. The patents associated with this technology are very recent and could be worth a lot more than Facebook paid for them.
WhatsApp: This is the Facebook acquisition that everyone's heard of. WhatsApp is a mobile messaging platform with over 400 million users. The acquisition allowed Facebook to get a better grasp on mobile and enter markets outside of the continental United States: most of those 400 million users are scattered across Europe and Asia.
Oculus VR: The Oculus headset is a virtual-reality device that straps on to your face in order to give full-fledged, hyper-detailed visuals for video games or other visual media. Although still very much in the works, there were a large amount of patents picked up in the acquisition. The Oculus could allow Facebook to enter markets that people would have never expected them to go into, such as video games.
Outside of these purchases Facebook also has a large amount of patents that it has bought independently, most of them related to social networking algorithms.
Facebook has a lot going for it. There doesn't seem to be anything that can stop it - it's chugging along, gaining revenue, acquiring intellectual property, and showing people more ads than ever before. Don't buy into the hype: Facebook is a great company with solid fundamentals, a stranglehold on its market, and a very capable CEO. Go long while the price is still low.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014070915:49
SYMBOL = AMZN
Amazon recently made a clever move to garner authors' sympathy in order to protect its control over the e-books business. It proposed to Hachette Book Group that the book authors can keep 100% of the revenues generated from e-book sales while the two companies reach a common ground as they re-negotiate their expired e-book contract.
Hachette Book Group has rejected the proposal.
In case of any fall out, Amazon will come out with an upper hand as Hachette’s e-books constitute a very small portion of its overall business.
Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN) recently made a clever move to garner authors' sympathy in order to protect its control over the e-books business. It proposed to Hachette Book Group that the book authors can keep 100% of the revenues generated from e-book sales while the two companies reach a common ground as they re-negotiate their expired e-book contract. Hachette Book Group has rejected the proposal. While the proposal was a tactical PR (public relations) move by Amazon, the retailer’s priority remains to retain control over pricing and discounts of e-books in order to manage profits. In case of any fall out, Amazon will come out with an upper hand as Hachette’s e-books constitute a very small portion of its overall business. Moreover, Amazon’s strong stand will deter other e-book publishers from going down the same path. On the other hand, if Hachette manages to swing things in its favor, it could set a precedent for the industry, thus affecting Amazon’s overall e-book revenues. However, e-book sales form a very small portion of the retailer’s revenues. Hence, the risk associated with the outcome of this negotiation is minimal.
Our price estimate for Amazon stands for $341, implying a premium of 5% to the market price.
Estimating Amazon’s E-Book Sales
While the chart above shows total Kindle device sales which include e-readers and Kindle Fire tablets, we have separate estimates for Kindle e-reader alone. The annual sales for Kindle e-reader peaked in 2011 to roughly 13.44 million, followed by a decline in 2012 when the figure totaled an estimated 9.68 million. The sales in 2013 were more or less flat, which suggests that roughly 43.7 million Kindle devices had been cumulatively sold up to the end of 2013.
Amazon launched its Kindle e-reader in late 2007. Assuming a three-year replacement cycle, we conclude that there may be approximately 30 million Kindle e-readers currently in use. Looking at the Kindle library, it is easy to notice that most e-books are priced between $4 and $10, with a slight skew towards lower-priced books. Therefore, we assume average price per e-book at $6 for the purpose of estimation. Additionally, we also know that Amazon gets a 30% cut on sales of most e-books, with remaining 70% going to the publisher. Keeping these figures in mind and the assumption of five e-books sold annually per Kindle e-reader owner, we arrive at annual revenues of close to $265 million. If we assume a figure of 10 e-books sold annually per Kindle e-reader owner, the annual sales will amount to $530 million. There is room for error here, but the assumptions are reasonable enough to give us an idea of a probable range of revenues.
Impact Of Reduced Cut Will Be Negligible
If Amazon’s revenue cut is effectively reduced to half, i.e. 15%, its annual revenues from e-book sales could dip to much less than $500 million. However, that’s less than 1% of its total revenues as more than 99% of its sales can be attributed to electronics and general merchandise, digital music, DVDs and books. The reduction in Amazon’s revenue share could happen in a couple of ways. First, the new terms of the re-negotiated contract could specify lower percentage share. Second, the pricing power could be taken away from the retailer, thus reducing its ability to manage sales by using discounts which could result in lower revenues. These lower revenues would be a manifestation of reduced unit sales.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014070916:20
SYMBOL = NQ
Muddy Waters jumped to conclusions and missed, yet again.
Ms. Ying Han resigned as Audit Chair for both WuXi PharmaTech and NQ Mobile for validated personal reasons. There were no disagreements between her and NQ Mobile.
It's highly unlikely insider shares as described by Muddy Waters were sold between 6/25/14 and 7/3/14.
Tom Smykowski: It was a "Jump to Conclusions" mat. You see, it would be this mat that you would put on the floor... and would have different CONCLUSIONS written on it that you could JUMP TO. 
Michael Bolton: That's the worst idea I've ever heard in my life, Tom. 
Samir: Yes, this is horrible, this idea.
In the ever ongoing drama that investors in NQ Mobile (NYSE:NQ) live in, it was recently brought to this author's attention, the allegation that Ms. Ying Han, the Audit Committee Chair resigned due to "problems with NQ itself" and that NQ had conspired to defraud investors by assisting insiders to sell before publicly announcing her departure.
As written by fellow SA Author Muddy Waters,
"Ms. Han's resignation lays bare the corrupt nature of the "independent" investigation NQ's directors conducted. While NQ claims that Ms. Han resigned for "personal reasons," it is obvious she resigned because of problems with NQ itself. To further illustrate that point, Ms. Han still chairs the audit committee of WuXi PharmaTech (NYSE:WX)."
and that "NQ deliberately held back both (PWC expansion of audit scope) admissions so that NQ China insiders and their proxies could illegally dump more shares at existing shareholders' expense"
While I appreciate a good yarn now and then, Muddy Waters' suspicion of Ms. Han leaving due to a disagreement with NQ as well as accusing the Company of withholding information and conspiring to commit insider trading is ridiculous. Ms. Han disclosed that she had personal issues and that those issues were serious enough to require her to step down from her board position of not 1 company, but 2 companies (NQ Mobile and WuXi PharmaTech). As was disclosed by NQ Mobile at the time of her departure, there were no disagreements between her and the Company. I believe Muddy Waters' suspicion of Ms. Han having issues with NQ is unfounded as Ms. Han's departure from WuXi on 7/8/14 substantiates her reasons of stepping down due to personal reasons. In fact, I believe her relationship with NQ was so close and positive that not only did she stay around long enough to ensure that the Independent Audit was completed, but that she continued to perform in her role as Audit Committee Head until a qualified replacement was found. She performed this role despite the personal issues she was likely confronting at the same time.
With regard to Muddy Waters' magical date of June 25th being the date she informed Management of her pending departure, this author finds that hard to believe she did not inform NQ's management team much earlier. The search for Ms. Han's replacement likely took weeks, if not months to plan and execute. Finding new board members of the caliber of Max Yao and Justin Chen likely took some time and diligence on both sides. Now this is speculation on my part, but I would guess that Max Yao, the CEO of a billion dollar company in China would do some fairly heavy research on NQ before agreeing to join their board, and as Audit Committee Head no less. Given the headline risk of associating oneself with NQ, taking a week (June 25th - July 3rd) to interview, investigate and decide on accepting such a high profile role with NQ seems like a stretch.
Regarding the accusations of insider sales from June 25th - July 2nd, a few things to consider regarding this volatility.
1. Volume from 5/16/14 - 6/25/14 averaged 7.2M shares daily. I chose to start on 5/16/14 as that was the day after NQ missed its second deadline for the 20-F and volume increased significantly on a sustained basis. The volume on 6/25/14 was 5.3M shares, or 27% below the 7.2M average. The volume on 6/26/14 was 9.0M shares, or 25% higher than the 7.2M average. The volume on 6/27/14 was 15.3M, or nearly 2x the 7.2M average.
2. Altimeter sold 5.4M shares between 6/25/14 and 7/3/14. I suspect the bulk of those sales happened on 7/2/14 and 7/3/14, however if Altimeter was selling during that time frame, it's likely other institutions were as well given the steep drop in share price since 5/14/14, and the share price hitting a 52 week low on 6/25/14.
3. According to Muddy Waters, the audit was in trouble since mid-February. Wouldn't it have made more sense to sell insider shares starting in mid February or even March when NQ was trading in the low $20s? Why wait until 6/25/14 to sell if you knew you were going to have trouble with your audit hitting timelines or coming out unqualified?
4. Senior Management has been in a voluntary lockup since 9/5/12. This lockup is not set to expire until 9/5/14. If insiders truly believed they were running a scam, you would think they would have sold their shares sometime between 10/25/13 - 2/14/14 when the share price averaged around $14/sh. 2/14/14 is the date that senior management last disclosed their holdings.
Ultimately, it's this author's belief that the uncertainties surrounding the 20-F and heavy selling pressure over the preceding week had investors worried, driving volatility and volume. Insider selling, as described by Muddy Waters, was unlikely.
What does this all mean?
The departure of Ms. Han is still a negative, purely in the sense of continuity and efficiency in producing the 20-F. On the flip side, an undistracted (with personal matters) Max Yao might be more capable in working with PWC to address their needs. Investors should no longer consider Ms. Han's departure a major red flag in terms of issues between the audit committee and company or auditor, but more of a consideration of the transition risk between Mr. Yao, NQ and PWC.
The Company has yet to address their "Consideration" of PWC's expanded audit request and until they do, the share price will continue to reflect that overhang. While the discussions between company and auditor remain private, it is this author's understanding that the primary points of discussion between PWC and NQ surround arriving at a definitive scope and timeframe for PWC's extended audit. Until a resolution has been reached, this issue continues to be a major red flag for long investors to consider.
Until the 20-F is finally issued, the relationship between NQ and its Auditor will be perceived (rightfully) to be strained. Investors should continue to view this as a risk factor in their assessment of NQ. On the flip side, PWC continues to be their Auditor and based on the latest press releases, NQ continues to work with PWC in completing the 20-F. If the differences were so wide that no resolution is possible, PWC could have easily walked from the relationship by now. This continues to be a red flag for long investors to consider.
While the path ahead seems daunting, "There are many pathways forward." I happen to think my last article lays out one of those paths. It's to be determined how the additions of Taek Kwon, Max Yao and Justin Chen will affect NQ. It's this Author's belief that all three of these additions should be positive additions to NQ's leadership team. These additions constitute a green flag for long investors to consider.
Like the Jumping to Conclusions board game referenced above, Muddy Waters seems to have laid out a series of predetermined conclusions and is jumping from one conclusion to the other, crafting a story to fit whatever truth is convenient to them. To date, Muddy Waters has been absolutely wrong on each fraud claim (as supported by the results of the Independent Committee) and has become ever more daring in their slander of the company. This should constitute a green flag for long investors to consider.
Lastly, I would like to take the time to thank Ms. Han for her efforts in completing the Independent Audit and wish her well on a positive outcome for her personal issues.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014070917:30
SYMBOL = Z
When is a great company not a great stock to own? Naturally, you always want to own companies with great management, growth at the company and industry level, etc.
However, there comes a point where the company’s prospects – however great they may be – are far exceeded by the expectations of stockholders.
If real estate’s mantra is “location, location, location,” then should Zillow Inc.’s be “overvalued, overvalued, overvalued?”.
By Steven Carroll
Seattle-based Zillow (NASDAQ:Z) is an online real estate database that was founded in 2005 and it's been doing all the right things - surging revenue, booming stock price, lofty expectations.
Puzzling model results
However, when we look at the StarMine models, we see an obvious disparity between the shorter term signals such as price momentum and analyst revisions, and the longer term valuation factors.
Check out the bearish insider model (company insiders are net sellers) and the short interest model (the hedge fund crowd sniffs an opportunity). We also see a low EQ score (the degree to which current earnings are backed by strong free cash flow, conservative accruals/exclusions).
One interesting point highlighted by the StarMine EQ model is that exclusions (i.e. pro forma earnings, rather than GAAP earnings) allowed the company to make its earnings target. On a U.S. GAAP basis, the company would have actually missed. While there's significant discretion awarded to companies in how they treat various accounting items, you can see that there's a persistent pattern of using other exclusions.
Caution flags
While price and analyst revisions momentum remains strong, one early warning sign comes from analyst recommendations. Earnings per share have surged dramatically in recent months, along with the rest of the income statement. However, analysts seem to be sounding a more cautious note - with a number of downgrades (to hold). Essentially, the message seems to be that the analysts love the stock (everyone loves fast growing stocks) but can't get themselves enthusiastic about the current stock price.
Remember Cisco?
To my original point - everyone loved Cisco Systems Inc. (NASDAQ:CSCO) in 1999. The thesis on which the stock was adored was that the world was changing - switches, routers, etc. were going to be the backbone of this new world - and who wouldn't want to buy the firm that was providing the key infrastructure? This was the modern day version of being the guy selling spades and shovels to the gold miners. It was the sure thing while the miners hoped to strike it rich.
Where's the beef?
As it happens, the CSCO bulls were entirely right on their thesis. The company did grow, did provide the backbone for today's Internet and, to boot, was, and is, well managed. Unfortunately, expectations for how that growth would translate into astronomical earnings were a little wider of the mark - the CSCO share price of 2001 remains its high water mark, despite 2013 revenue of $48.6 billion compared to $18.9 billion in 2000. Putting it another way - the market was paying $75 for $18.9 billion of revenue; today it's paying $25 for $48.6 billion.
Returning to Zillow - the company is growing revenue (EPS, not so much) at a fast pace. Management seems astute and has a great track record with Internet retail. None of that is in dispute. The question is simply whether a shareholder today, owning equity at $134 - is adequately rewarded for risk in an uncertain world. That valuation implies five-year EPS growth, compounding, of 86.7%., i.e. 86% growth every year. The forward P/E (I know earnings are out of fashion and all, but I still want to point it out) is 226 times.
Alan Greenspan called his irrational exuberance about three years too early - and wise economists always give a prediction, or a date, never both. However I think that it is clear that a number of stocks are returning to valuation zones that effectively ignore the risk of external shocks, and certainly ignore the likelihood of strong competition emerging.
In such an environment - whether retail investor or professional portfolio manager - it pays to think about the risks in the event of a misstep (look at recent performance for online UK retailer ASOS, which we covered earlier in the year). If the markets turn nervous and do some type of March 2000 replay (or 2008) - well, in such an environment you want companies with solid earnings, great cash flow and conservative accounting and exclusions policies. I think it's clear Zillow would struggle to meet that description.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014070917:59
SYMBOL = HLF
The FTC regulates pyramid schemes.
The FTC also regulates anti-trust violations.
Does the pursuit of an anti-trust case puncture the pyramid scheme too?
Pyramid schemes come in different shapes and sizes. What they have in common should be well known by now. Pyramid schemes design incentive systems that compensate participants when they recruit new members into the scheme. This compensation serves as an incentive to get participants to focus their energies and efforts on recruiting. It is the emphasis on recruiting that unleashes an endless chain of new recruits. Taken to the logical end state, those recruited in the later innings are destined to be disappointed when they discover that their downlines end-up empty or that saturation in the marketplace makes it impossible to earn profits.
Obvious pyramid schemes pay a headhunting fee to the recruiter for signing-up a new recruit. e.g. If I pay $500 to you as my recruiter the company might pay you $250 and keep the difference. And so on and so on and so on.
Product based pyramid schemes are more complicated but the mechanics are similar to a scheme that pays a headhunting fee. The only difference is the trigger that releases the recruiting reward. In an inventory loading scheme, the trigger for recruiting rewards is the acquisition of an opening level of inventory. New recruits are encouraged to sign-up and stock-up. When they stock-up, the recruiter gets paid.
The tricky part for the recruiter is easy to see. How do you get the recruit to stock-up on inventory so you maximize your commission?
Fortunately, for Herbalife recruiters, Herbalife (NYSE:HLF) has a well-crafted answer to this question. EL SUPERVISORA.
Herbalife charges its distributors different wholesale prices for inventory based upon the Volume purchased. The discount curve is simple:
If you want a bigger discount, you have to buy more inventory. It is as simple as that. Herbalife also tethers some pretty cool titles to these discount levels. Private, Corporal, Sergeant, Captain don't cut it in the Herbalife world. Instead, we have Distributor, Success Builder, Qualified Producer, and Supervisor. $3,000 gets you to Supervisor right out of the gate while lining the recruiter's pockets too. Amazingly, Herbalife's recruiters focus their energies on hunting for Supervisors. Go Figure.
The slick design of the Herbalife pay plan is impressive, until you consider the following idea. PRICE DISCRIMINATION IS ILLEGAL.
Why is it illegal?
Turns out that if you charge one group of salespeople one wholesale price and another group of salespeople a higher wholesale price you are gift-wrapping a monopolistic advantage to those who pay a lower price for inventory. In Herbalife's case, SUPERVISORS hold a distinct competitive advantage as retailers v. lowly distributors.
Q. Do we see evidence that SUPERVISORS actually use this advantage "in practice"? The answer is, of course. Herbalife's Formula 1 shake mix is ubiquitously available online with free shipping to boot at many websites at prices well below a lowly distributor's actual COGS. (see herbalwell.com, amazon.com, eBay.com, herbal-living-shop.com)
Q. Does this seem fair to you?
If your answer to this question is "No, it does not seem fair." then already you understand the gist of Section 2 of the Clayton Act.
40 Years ago the FTC prosecuted Koscot in a product base pyramid scheme. Count III of the indictment zeroed-in on Glenn Turner's pricing policies. As a reminder, here is what the case said.
COUNT III
Alleging violation of Section 2(A) of the Clayton Act.
PAR. 16. The difference in net cost among the various distributors of respondents' products, each of whom is in competition with other distributors of respondents' products, results in substantial discrimination in the net prices for products sold to the nonfavored customers, who are both direct purchasers and indirect purchasers of respondents' products...
The effect of respondent Koscot Interplanetary, Inc.'s discrimination in net price as alleged herein may be substantially to lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly in the line of commerce in which its favored purchaser is engaged, or to injure, destroy, or prevent competition between the favored and nonfavored purchasers or with the customers of either of them.
The aforesaid acts and practices of respondents constitute violations of the provisions of Section 2 of the Clayton Act as amended.
In the judgment issued in 1975, the following was written:
III. Restraints of Trade
B. Price Discrimination
145. The facts as to the price discrimination charge (complaint, Count III) may be briefly stated.
Koscot discriminated in price between competing purchasers of its products. To distributors Koscot sold at 65 percent off the retail price, while to supervisors or subdistributors (hereinafter 'subdistributors') it sold at 55 percent off retail price. [FN25] (P36, supra) Since both distributors and subdistributors sold to beauty advisors at 40 percent off the retail price, the distributor's gross margin on such sales was 25 percent, while that of a subdistributor on such sales was 15 percent. On direct sales to consumers, distributors enjoyed a gross margin 10 percentage points above that of subdistributors.
(B) The products involved were of like grade and quality.
(C) Distributors and subdistributors performed the same function in the sale and distribution of Koscot products. Both classes of customers purchased directly from Koscot and resold to consumers, either directly or through beauty advisors.
(D) There was competition between distributors and subdistributors, not only in direct sales to consumers, but also in the recruitment of beauty advisors and in sales to beauty advisors.
(E) There is evidence of actual or potential injury to competition as a result of the discriminations. Irrespective of such evidence, however, the magnitude of the discrimination was such as to warrant an inference that the effect may be to substantially lessen competition.
(F) There was no showing by Koscot that the price discriminations were justified on any of the grounds specified by the applicable statute (CPF 494­ 508).
146. Accordingly, such discriminations in price were in violation of Section 2 of the Clayton Act, as amended.
Q. What would happen to Herbalife's pay plan if the FTC were to tackle this Anti-Trust violation directly?
Q. What would happen to Herbalife if the company had to sell wholesale inventory to all distributors at the same price?
Q. What would happen to Herbalife's SUPERVISOR program?
Q. What would happen to Herbalife's pyramid scheme?
Imagine for a moment that starting tomorrow, everyone who signs-up to become a distributor can immediately buy stock for the same price as a SUPERVISOR. Imagine that 50% off is the going rate for wholesale inventory whether you buy $100 worth or $5,000 worth.
Now, imagine you are a new recruit signing-up for the business for the very first time.
Q. How much inventory would you buy?
a) $3,000 worth.
b) Far Less than $3,000 worth.
c) Far more than $3,000 worth.
If you think quickly, you can answer this question "Just In Time."
The obvious answer is that you would take a minimum amount of inventory risk as you pursue and grow a legitimate book of retail customers.
As a "business opportunity" seeker, this would be very good for you. Trouble is, your recruiter would really be put out. No longer could he sell you tickets to SUPERVISOR training sessions or convince you to load-up your credit card to become a SUPERVISOR the "traditional way." No longer could your recruiter earn a headhunting fee on your inventory load and then throw you to the wolves as you compete for clients with the other 3.9 million distributors that exist around the world.
Overnight, the entire Herbalife incentive system would change and change for the better.
Overnight, inventory purchases would become tethered in some way shape or form to actual final demand for this over-priced placebo v. to qualifications and advancement and recruitment into a pyramid scheme.
Q. What is the fastest way for the FTC, investors and the public at large to discover just what intrinsic value Formula 1 has as a legitimate consumer product?
A. Drive a stake through the heart of its SUPERVISOR program with an anti-trust prosecution.
Presto! Overnight, the Goose that lays the Golden Eggs for Herbalife recruiters would be put down for good.
You might be asking yourself as you read this article, "Why doesn't Herbalife flatten its wholesale pricing on its own?"
Instead of offering up a 100% Money Back Guarantee as part of its Gold Standard Protection Package, why doesn't the company just obey the law?
Isn't the company aware that Glenn Turner was prosecuted for price discrimination? Doesn't the company know that its SUPERVISORs hold a huge competitive advantage over its junior ranks?
A. Of course it knows.
What the company also knows is that if you kill its SUPERVISOR program you kill its pyramid scheme. If you kill its pyramid scheme you kill its revenue stream. In much the same way that Burnlounge saw demand for its products collapse when the "Mogul" program was put out of business by the FTC, investors should know that the death of Herbalife's SUPERVISOR program shutters the mechanics of its confidence game. Formula 1 then gets exposed as just another shake mix.
Q. Is a simple Anti-Trust prosecution the shortest distance between two points for the FTC?
A. Did Al Capone get prosecuted for Income Tax Evasion? (RICO MIGHT HAVE WORKED TOO)
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again...
Ostensibly, a simple Anti-Trust case would seem to get to the heart of the matter. The evidence already exists that Herbalife price discriminates. It's all in "Black and White" in its compensation plan. The word "primarily" doesn't even enter the equation.
A standard 50% off wholesale price should, by extension, lead to a standard market clearing retail price. At the very least, all salespeople would exist on a level playing field as they bash their brains out one oversaturated geography at a time for actual retail customers.
Whether or not the Clayton Act will be used by the FTC after its investigation into Herbalife remains to be seen. At the very least, we know how it turned out for Glenn Turner.
For now, All's Quiet on the Western Front. How long the silence persists is anyone's guess.
In the interim, any guesses what Herbalife distributors are doing today?
If you said RECRUITING ASPIRING SUPERVISORs then you understand how this business works "in practice" too. Bravo!
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014121718:00
SYMBOL = CVX
(Reuters) - Chevron Corp (CVX.N) is putting a plan to drill for oil in the Beaufort Sea in Canada's Arctic on hold indefinitely because of what it called "economic uncertainty in the industry" as oil prices fall.
In a letter to Canada's National Energy Board on Wednesday, the company withdrew from a hearing on Arctic drilling rules because it has walked away from plans to drill in the EL 481 block, 250 kilometers (155 miles) northwest of Tuktoyaktuk, Northwest Territories.
The drilling project is the largest yet put on hold after oil prices dropped by nearly half over the last six months, even as a long list of oil companies cut their budgets for 2015 because of the price drop.
"Chevron has put its drilling plans for EL 481 on hold indefinitely," the company said in its letter to the regulator, which was confirmed by a spokesman.
The San Ramon, California-based company has been planning the well since 2009 and had planned to drill the prospect in the 2020s, according to filings.
Imperial Oil Ltd (IMO.TO), which leads a joint venture with Exxon Mobil Corp (XOM.N) and BP Plc (BP.L), said on Wednesday that it has not changed early-stage plans to drill in the Beaufort Sea and that a final decision on the project has yet to made.
Chevron has two licenses to explore in the Beaufort, holding EL 481 outright and controlling 60 percent in the other alongside Norway’s Statoil ASA (STL.OL).
The company had previously outlined expectations to have “highly significant” capital outlays in the area. Chevron paid C$103.3 million for the rights to explore in the area of roughly 508,000 acres (206,000 hectares). The region is just east of the Canada-U.S. border.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014121621:11
SYMBOL = GE
(Reuters) - General Electric Co gave a 2015 profit forecast range on Tuesday that barely included Wall Street's target as the U.S. conglomerate braced for a "sluggish" oil and gas sector due to plunging crude prices.
GE said it expects earnings from its aviation, power & water and other industrial units to rise at least 10 percent next year as it focuses on increasing its profit share from these businesses to 75 percent by 2016 from 55 percent in 2013. The switch is aimed at reducing GE's exposure to its finance business.
Meanwhile, revenue from its oil and gas business is expected to fall next year as low prices sparked fears of decreased capital spending by oil companies.
"We're really planning the company for a sluggish oil and gas sector in '15," Chief Executive Jeff Immelt told investors in New York on Tuesday.
GE's oil and gas business, which makes drilling, compressors and other equipment, accounted for just below 12 percent of total revenue in 2013, but GE has been expanding the business with $14 billion worth of deals since 2007.
"We like it more at $120 a barrel, don't get me wrong, but we like this business," Immelt said.
Global crude prices have fallen by more than 40 percent since June due to oversupply and OPEC's refusal to cut its output ceiling. Brent crude futures fell for a fifth straight day on Tuesday to end below $60 a barrel.
Immelt has been seeking to improve the company's profit margins by cutting costs, and on Tuesday added a new goal of improving gross margin, which stood at 27 percent in 2013, by about 0.5 percentage points in 2015 and 2016.
GE forecast 2015 earnings in a range of about $1.70 to $1.80 per share, the first time in five years that the company issued a specific earnings forecast.
Analysts on average were expecting earnings of $1.79 per share for 2015 and $1.67 for 2014, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Earnings from the company's industrial units are expected to be in a range of $1.10 to $1.20 per share next year. GE said it expects organic revenue growth of 2 percent to 5 percent at the businesses next year.
GE's shares closed down 0.4 percent at $24.49 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Despite Immelt's moves to reshape GE's portfolio this year, the company's shares have languished, down about 12.6 percent so far this year against increases for major U.S. stock benchmarks.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014120918:12
SYMBOL = C
Citigroup Inc will record $2.7 billion in litigation expenses and another $800 million in repositioning charges, leaving the third-largest U.S. bank "marginally profitable" in the fourth quarter, its chief executive officer said on Tuesday.
Mike Corbat's announcement at a New York investor conference was the second time in six weeks the bank has had to tack on a massive legal charge.
The costs stemmed from government investigations into possible manipulation of foreign exchange markets, setting of LIBOR interest rates and lax compliance of money laundering rules. Past legal charges have foreshadowed settlements of cases.
Before the announcement, analysts had expected Citigroup would make about $3.4 billion in the fourth quarter, instead of a small profit.
While dealing with legal problems, Corbat has been trying to meet his profit and efficiency targets for next year. He was appointed CEO in 2012.
He is also pressing for Federal Reserve approval next year to return more capital to shareholders through higher dividends and stock buybacks. The Fed rejected Citi's last request after examining how the company would manage risk to its capital under stress.
Since Corbat became CEO, Citigroup has reduced its payroll by 20,000 jobs. It employed 243,000 at the end of September.
It has also cut its real estate by 10 million square feet, or 15 percent, he said. The company has been closing bank branches, consolidating back-office support centers and getting out of consumer businesses that are too small to be efficient in some countries.
With the $2.7 billion in legal charges, the company has "largely" covered its expected liabilities, Corbat said.
Repositioning charges will be lower next year, he said. The new $800 million charge was about twice as much as Citigroup has recorded in recent quarters.
Corbat said he and Chief Financial Officer John Gerspach saw opportunities to "go ahead and pull some restructuring and repositioning forward" when they went through the fourth-quarter budget.
On Oct. 30, Citigroup reduced third-quarter results because of an additional $600 million in legal costs. The change took Citigroup's third-quarter profit down to $2.84 billion.
Corbat also said he expects fourth-quarter revenue from capital markets trading to be down about 5 percent from a year earlier. Interest rate spreads and foreign exchange rates moved sharply in the first few weeks of the quarter and "we didn't escape that," Corbat said.
Citigroup stock closed down nearly 1 percent to $55.85.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071616:53
SYMBOL = AAPL
Apple's deal with IBM shows determination to enter the corporate market.
BlackBerry's collapsing market share makes it a likely takeover target.
Buying BlackBerry would secure Apple's position as the leading corporate mobile player.
Apple's (NASDAQ:AAPL) newly announced deal with IBM (NYSE:IBM) confirms once and for all that it is putting one aspect, at least, of the Jobs legacy behind it, and embracing the corporate market. Last year, I proposed (to a deluge of criticism and abuse) that a highly logical move for Apple would be to acquire BlackBerry (NASDAQ:BBRY). Sixteen months on it still looks like a deal that could be hugely beneficial for shareholders in both companies.
John Chen has achieved a remarkable stabilization of BlackBerry, but just how vulnerable the company remains was demonstrated by the 5% share price drop in the immediate aftermath of the Apple-IBM (IBM) announcement. The underlying cause is apparent from the chart below.
Until mid-2011 there were four viable smartphone operating systems in the market: Android, iOS, Symbian (included in "Others" in the chart) and BlackBerry each had a market share of at least 10%. Now Android and iOS have over 96% of the market between them. BlackBerry is down to just 0.6%. It is very hard to see a long-term future for the company on that basis -- even more so with Apple's deal with IBM.
In short, someone is going to buy BlackBerry, and exploit its undeniable strengths in mobile security, as well as QNX and the rest of its remarkable patent and software library. BlackBerry's current market capitalization is $5.6 billion, giving an enterprise value of about $4.3 billion once net cash is knocked off. It could probably be bought for a net price of $6-$7 billion.
If the buyer is Apple it will be in a position to dominate the enterprise and government mobile segments. If someone else does, there will be two players. It's as simple as that.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071617:05
SYMBOL = F
Emerging markets continue to remain the major growth drivers for the company.
Above-average sales in the European region shows that the company is meeting its robust growth targets.
Growing sales in emerging markets as well as Europe should strengthen the fundamentals of the company, which should give support to a rise in the stock price.
Ford (NYSE:F) is continuing to show solid growth from Asian, as well as European markets. The European automobile market has been slow, due to the poor economic conditions prevailing in the region. However, the trend is changing and the companies are reporting an increase in sales of passenger, as well as commercial vehicles. The region is still far from completely out of the slump, and the market is expected to grow at a slow rate in the near future. However, the signs are good and the improving conditions in the region will certainly have a positive impact on the automobile sector.
Product differentiation, superior product quality and low costs have proved to be key factors allowing Ford to regain its place in the automobile industry. However, lower costs and superior product quality are somehow constrained by systemic barriers, which leave product differentiation as the most important aspect for increasing market share. Ford has substantially increased its products portfolio, in order to increase its market share in the existing and emerging markets, at the start of this year. The increased product launches in the current year managed to record impressive growth in the emerging markets, Europe and the world's largest automobile market, China. However, we have discussed the overall growth and Ford's position in China in detail in our previous article. Therefore, we will only discuss the current performance of the company in the Chinese market.
Ford recently reported its first-half results in the emerging markets, and continued to produce impressive growth figures in the region. Ford-China has crossed the half-million mark by the first half of the year, which is up almost 35% from last year. The company has sold around 549,256 vehicles in China, with 87,783 vehicles only in the month of June - up 17% compared to the same period last year. This is due to strong product growth, such as Ford Focus, Ford Kuga, Ford Mondeo and the Ford EcoSport, which increased the sales of the company substantially. China, the world's largest automobile market, demands safe, high-quality, fuel-efficient and technologically smart vehicles, which Ford successfully managed to provide over the last few quarters. Furthermore, the company's passenger cars joint venture, Changan Ford (CAF), also reported an impressive 39% increase in the first half of the year. Ford Focus and Ford Mondeo proved to be the leading passenger cars among the Ford product offerings in China, with a sales increase of around 9% and 124%, respectively.
Ford's commercial vehicle investment in China, Jiangling Motors Corporation (JMC), also reported its best first-half performance, delivering a 21% increase in the first six months and a 19% increase in June, compared to the same period last year. Further, the imported vehicles segment also reported impressive growth, showing an increase of around 70% in the first half. Ford's success in China will continue to follow an uptrend, as the company launched 88 new dealerships across China, increasing the total dealer count to 750. Moreover, as part of accelerated growth plan, it opened a $350 million transmission plant in Chongqing. This is the first transmission plant for Ford in the Asia-Pacific region, which will produce 400,000 units a year to help meet growing Chinese demand.
European sales increased by 6.6% in the first half and slightly outperformed the industry average of 6.3%. This is due to the company's highest first-half sales volume since 2011, which stood at around 605,400 vehicles in 20 traditional markets in Europe. Moreover, the pricing environment in the region remains extremely competitive, and the company managed to retain its market share at around 7.9% in the European market.
Ford has also managed to attain a competitive advantage by introducing its 1.0-litre EcoBoost advanced petrol engine, which was recently awarded the International Engine of the Year. The EcoBoost engine successfully managed to mark its third unprecedented year with increased sales in the European region. Ford initially launched this engine in Ford Fiesta. However, the company also plans to introduce it in a further nine vehicles in Europe. This will further increase Ford Fiesta sales, which is already one of the best-selling vehicles in the region.
Growth for Ford remains extremely strong from emerging markets, with China being the most attractive market. On the other hand, Europe is making a strong recovery, and the above-average sales growth of the company shows that it is meeting its robust growth targets in this region as well. We have maintained that Ford will be one of the best stocks during the current year, as the growth for the company remains strong from almost all the segments, which should result in solid growth in fundamentals, resulting in support for a rise in the stock price.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071617:44
SYMBOL = PFE
We pitch two companies from the pharmaceuticals sector, Pfizer and Novartis, against one another in the latest instalment of our Head-To-Head series.
The article focuses on the relative strengths and weaknesses of Pfizer and Novartis based on business performance and sustainability/dividends/forecasts.
It ends with a discussion of the current valuations of the two companies, and details whether Pfizer represents good relative value at current price levels.
Pfizer Background
Pfizer (NYSE:PFE) was founded in 1849 and is headquartered in New York. The company's Primary Care segment offers prescription pharmaceutical products primarily prescribed by primary-care physicians for various therapeutic and disease areas comprising, among others, Alzheimer's disease and cardiovascular conditions. Its Specialty Care and Oncology segment provides prescription pharmaceutical products for anti-infectives, endocrine disorders, haemophilia and vaccines. The company's Established Products and Emerging Markets segment offers prescription pharmaceutical products that had lost patent protection or marketing exclusivity in certain countries and/or regions, as well as sold in emerging markets. Its Consumer Healthcare segment provides non-prescription products in a range of therapeutic categories, such as dietary supplements, pain management, respiratory, and personal care.
Team Money Research Rating
Our investment philosophy is to focus on company fundamentals and identify stocks that are displaying strong business performance, that operate sustainably and that pay a decent, well-covered dividend.
We score each company relative to the other on the following criteria within each of our two main buckets:
Business Performance
Debt to equity ratio
Interest cover
Dividend payout ratio
Forward yield
Annual EPS growth forecast
Once we have scores for the two buckets, we can then assess whether a company represents good value based on the current prices of the two stocks. We use the following criteria to assess valuations on a relative basis.
Valuation
Forward price to earnings ratio
Price to book value ratio
Enterprise value to EBITDA
Price to 3-year average free cash flow ratio
5-year price to earnings growth ratio
So, for example, a company that scores well compared to its rival on the first two buckets (business performance and sustainability/dividends/forecasts) and that is undervalued relative to its peer (based on the third bucket: valuation) could outperform its competitor going forward.
As you can see, Pfizer is beaten by 70 points to 30 in the first two buckets. However, we feel that this score is not reflective of the quality of Pfizer because in the criteria in which it scored zero, it posted respectable numbers. For example, in terms of profitability Pfizer appears to be performing well. Its return on equity is a very healthy 13.75%, while return on assets of 5.75% is encouraging given the challenging features of the pharmaceutical industry right now, such as patent expiry and the threat of generic competition. Furthermore, Pfizer's margins remain strong at 32.68%, which highlight just how profitable the company still is.
In addition, Pfizer, despite losing out to Novartis in terms of sustainability, does not carry a large amount of balance sheet risk. Its debt to equity ratio of 47.59% is only moderate, while interest cover seems comfortable at 12.73. Indeed, Pfizer's balance sheet is not overly leveraged and this gives it the scope to make acquisitions going forward in an attempt to stimulate top and bottom-line growth.
Of course, growth is key to Pfizer's future, since its quarterly growth numbers (and its earnings forecasts for next year) were disappointing and were well behind those of Novartis. Meanwhile, a dividend yield of 3.50% is attractive and beats Novartis' yield of 3.00%. What we're impressed with, though, is the potential for Pfizer to increase dividends per share, with the payout ratio currently standing at just 31.00%. This bodes well for income-seeking investors going forward.
So, while Novartis has undoubtedly performed well in the first two buckets, we don't feel that its performance is quite as dominant as the overall scores suggest. Therefore, we remain upbeat about Pfizer's performance, provided it can stimulate its top and bottom lines in future.
Despite this, we acknowledge that Pfizer was second best in the first two buckets and, as such, should trade at a discount to its peer, Novartis. Let's see if it does.
We're surprised at the size of the valuation discount between Pfizer and Novartis. Sure, we expected a discount, but Pfizer offers better value in four of the five valuation criteria and, in addition, the gap between the two stocks is fairly large. For instance, Pfizer trades at a discount of 14.19% to Novartis based on the forward P/E ratio, despite Pfizer having a far lower expected growth rate than its peer. In addition, Pfizer's EV/EBITDA ratio is 38.71% lower than that of Novartis, while its price to free cash flow ratio is 40.70% lower. Although less of a discount, Pfizer's price to book ratio is 20.38% lower than that of Novartis, while its PEG ratio is higher due to the aforementioned lower growth rates.
Overall, we feel that Pfizer's current valuation is too low in relation to that of Novartis. Sure, it was second best in the first two buckets, but we feel its price could appreciate versus Novartis so as to narrow the excessively wide valuation gap that currently exists between the two companies.
Pfizer is a high quality company that we believe offers good value at current levels. Although it was beaten into second place by Novartis on the Team Money Research rating system, it appears to be relatively undervalued at current levels. That's because we feel that its performance in the first two buckets was deserving of a discount, but not one as wide as that encountered in the third bucket, valuation. As such, we feel that Pfizer could outperform its sector peer, Novartis, going forward.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071617:48
SYMBOL = LXK
Lexmark has seen a decline in its top line since 2012. FY 2014 projected revenues are expected to be down 2%-4% from FY 2013.
The company is looking to expand through acquisitions. This could sidetrack the value the company has returned to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks.
Lexmark is a financially sound company that needs to see greater growth before justifying the current valuation.
Lexmark (NYSE:LXK), a provider of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services, has seen its stock rally 120% since the announcement that it was exiting the inkjet printer business in late 2012. Terminating the consumer business and focusing on enterprise products would allow Lexmark to restructure into higher margin products and increase potential savings by $140M by 2015. As seen in the chart below, the market was optimistic with Lexmark's developments. However, I now think there is a discrepancy between Lexmark's valuation and future outlook. (click to enlarge)
How Much Longer Will Sluggish Growth Be Tolerated?
Lexmark management has pointed toward the inkjet exit for the sluggish top line growth. When comparing figures with their prior periods, the following has occurred:
The managed print services and perceptive software business segments, which accounted for 28% of total Q1 2014 revenue, grew 18% from the prior year. However, when looking in further, the majority of this growth was fueled by acquisitions that Lexmark has made, not organic growth.
For example, the perceptive software business grew 38% in Q1 2014, yet only 12% of this was considered "organic." The organic growth excludes acquisitions completed in the past four quarters. The company has invested more than $700M in acquisitions since 2010. Fueling growth through acquisitions is a legitimate strategy. However it's not sustainable in the long term. Sooner or later, organic growth will have to be the main driver of revenue.
The majority (about two thirds) of Lexmark revenues comes from non managed print services such as hardware, supplies, software and services. This segment saw a 1% growth in Q1 2014. So overall top line revenue has declined and this trend is expected to continue for the remainder of the year. The only segment seeing substantial growth accounts for less than a third of revenue. Lexmark growth is missing. Nonetheless the stock is priced otherwise.
Being Shareholder Friendly May Be Limiting Growth
Lexmark has historically generated strong cash flows as the company has yielded 12 straight years of positive free cash flow. For 2014, the company projects FCF to be in the low range of 90%-100% of net income. Roughly 50% of the FCF is returned to shareholders through dividends (10 straight quarters of dividends) and buybacks. Since the exit of inkjet printers, Lexmark has reduced shares outstanding by roughly 3%.
The above guidance was given by management before the company announced a bid to acquire Swedish company ReadSoft (OTC:RDSFF). A bidding war between Lexmark and Hyland Software has caused Lexmark to increase its acquisition bid to $224M from the original bid of $182M (23% increase).
The street has not taken this increased bid well as Lexmark stock dropped 6% on the news. I believe ReadSoft will be a strategic acquisition for Lexmark as it will strengthen European operations and provide a source of growth in process solution business, both of which are crucial for Lexmark moving forward. The stock's reaction says otherwise though possibly because ReadSoft has had a declining EBITDA margin (below), which could be a troubling sign for the potential target.
The 6% decline in LXK stock on the increased acquisition bid of ReadSoft signifies the importance the market places on Lexmark's ability to increase shareholder value through capital allocation.
There is a chance that Lexmark has a negative FCF due to the $224M ReadSoft cash acquisition. In such a case, the company may have to use its $985M cash balance to return value to shareholders. However, 98% ($965M) of this cash is outside the US, so Lexmark may be faced with additional tax or may have to take on debt.
Lexmark has seen declining revenues since its exit from the inkjet business. The company is looking to expand through acquisitions. However its main business segment also is showing slow growth. Though ReadSoft will ultimately prove to be a beneficial addition to Lexmark, the target company has some troubling profitability trends that may not justify the current bidding war. Overall, Lexmark is a financially sound company that needs to see greater growth before justifying current valuation.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071618:27
SYMBOL = INTC
Intel reported a strong Q2 2014, with 8% annual growth in revenue ($13.8 billion).
Results were helped by improving PC sales, strong growth in data center products and increasing Internet-of-Things (IoT) revenue.
Net income ($2.8 billion) and earnings per share ($0.55) for the quarter were up 40% and 41% annually, respectively.
Leading semiconductor manufacturer Intel (NASDAQ:INTC) reported a strong Q2 2014, with an 8% annual growth in revenue ($13.8 billion) backed by improving PC sales, strong growth in data center products and increasing Internet-of-Things (IoT) revenue. At 64.5%, Intel’s gross margin increased by 5 points sequentially due to lower 14-nanometer start-up costs, high platform volumes and lower platform unit costs, which were partially offset by lower platform average selling prices. Net income ($2.8 billion) and earnings per share ($0.55) for the quarter were up 40% and 41% annually, respectively.
The persistent decline in PC shipments, combined with increasing investment in building out its technology, impacted Intel’s revenue growth as well as bottom line over the last two years. The company has performed well in the first half of 2014, with revenue and net income up 5% and 17%, respectively, so far this year. Though the PC environment remains challenging, Intel’s expanding reach, from the smallest energy-efficient embedded machines to the most powerful supercomputers, helps the company retain its leading position in the semiconductor industry.
2013 was a year of transition for Intel. It made significant progress in alternative markets with new platforms, product launches and design wins, which increased its competitiveness in the semiconductor industry. Intel believes that the macro situation is improving in 2014 as the industry accepts innovative form factors, including ultrabooks, convertibles and detachables. The company also is benefiting as it expands its presence in new growth markets.
Our current price of $27 for Intel is at an approximate 15% discount to the current market price. We are in the process of updating our model. 
Stabilizing PC Business - Intel Gained Market Share In 1H 2014
Intel’s PC client group revenue increased 6.2% year-on-year on account of the improving economic environment, an ongoing PC refresh, form factor innovation and the end-of-life of Windows XP. Both desktop and notebook platform revenue grew. The group reported its third consecutive quarter of year-over-year unit growth in Q2 2014, with volumes increasing 9% annually. The PC platform average selling prices declined 4% on a year-on-year basis.
Having grown at a robust rate for many years, PC sales started declining 2011 onward. As per research firm IDC, PC shipments declined 3.7% and 10.3%, in 2012 and 2013 respectively. The rate of decline dropped down to 4.4% in Q1 2014 and remained flat in Q2 2014, as Windows XP migration (to machines running newer operating systems) and commercial spending helped offset the weak consumer PC demand. [1] [2]
According to Intel, the installed base of PCs that are at least four years old is now roughly 600 million units. The company claims to be seeing clear signs of a refresh in the enterprise segment as well as in small and medium businesses. However, the consumer segment remains challenging, especially in emerging markets. The consumer PC business accounts for roughly 60% of Intel’s PC business, while the enterprise segment accounts for the remaining 40%. [3]
Intel is working to reinvent PC computing with new form factor innovation, lower price points, longer battery life and an OS of choice. It believes that the innovative two-in-one devices and lower price points has helped it gain market share so far this year. Intel expects more than 70 2-in-1 designs running on Intel processors for the back-to-school selling season, which can help spur demand for its processors.
The Data Center Group Remains Strong
Intel’s data center business continues to see robust growth as a result of the build-out of the cloud and exposure of devices that compute and connect to the Internet. The business reported a 19% annual growth in revenue ($3.5 billion), with platform volumes up 9% and average selling prices up 11% year-on-year. Cloud, networking, high-performance computing and enterprise revenue all grew more than 15% in the quarter.
Last year, Intel extended its leadership at the high end as well as at the leading edge of the market with the launch of the Ivy Bridge-based Xeon product line and Avoton (which targets the micro-server market), respectively. It introduced the Ivy Bridge-EX, which brings the largest generation-to-generation improvement in Server performance, this year. The company claims that its new E7 line, which features the largest memory footprint in the industry, saw particularly strong reception from enterprise as a result of its high speed, real-time data analytic capabilities. The new products drive a strong return on investment for Intel customers to upgrade their infrastructure.
Q2 2014 saw some specific purchasing by some of the large cloud providers, which probably won’t re-occur in the second half of 2014. Nevertheless, Intel expects its data center business to grow in the low double digits going forward.
Intel On Track To Ship 40 Million Tablets In 2014
Intel shipped 10 million tablets in Q2 2014 compared to 5 million in Q1 2014, which the company believes keeps it on track of its target of shipping 40 million units in 2014. Intel presently accounts for 4% – 5% of the global tablet market. If the company meets its target of shipping 40 million tablet chips by the end of 2014, its market share would increase to approximately 15%.
In Q2 2014, Intel announced a strategic agreement with Rockchip, a leading Chinese fabless semiconductor company and mobile-internet system on a chip (SoC) solution provider, to expand its low-cost tablet offerings. The two companies plan to deliver an Intel-branded quad-core mobile SoC platform integrated with Intel’s 3G modem technology, targeted primarily at the low-cost Android tablet segment. Intel and Rockchip will sell the quad-core SoFIA 3G into each other's existing customer base (OEMs and ODMs). By expanding its reach in sockets that typically sell for $10-$20, the Rockchip deal will help Intel gain a considerable share in the Chinese market. [4]
Intel’s mobile and communications group revenue declined by 83% annually in Q2 2014, as the higher tablet volumes were offset with the increase in contra revenue dollars. With contra revenue, Intel is paying tablet makers to cover the additional bill of materials (NYSEARCA:BOM) costs. However, the company believes that it will no longer have to pay the subsidies when its new products hit the market toward the end of 2014. The bill of materials cost for a Broxton tablet will be $20 less than for Bay Trail, and SoFIA, with its greater integration and smaller die size, is expected to cost even less. [5]
Midpoint of the revenue range at $14.4 billion, a 4% increase over Q2 2014. Midpoint of the gross margin range at 66%, up 1.5% compared to Q2 2014.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071618:33
SYMBOL = AETI
American Electric Technologies is strategically positioned to benefit from increased spending on energy infrastructure and equipment.
The company's growing international presence allows for diversification and exposure to rapidly growing markets like China and Brazil.
AETI is poised to benefit from industry trends while currently trading at a discount compared to peers.
American Electric Technologies, Inc. (AETI) is a provider of power delivery solutions to the energy industry. The company operates under three segments: Technical Products and Services (TP&S), Electrical and Instrumentation Construction (E&I), and American Access Technologies (AAT). The majority of products and services produced by AETI are in the oil and gas industry, but the company also has a presence in renewable energy and industrials.
AETI's international business is conducted through both direct selling with foreign agents and joint ventures with local partners, with the latter being emphasized. The company currently has three joint ventures in China, Singapore, and Brazil which account for roughly 16% of 2013 revenue. In China, AETI owns 40% of a JV with Baoji Oilfield Machinery, a subsidiary of China National Petroleum. So far, AETI has invested $2M to manufacture power and control systems for land drilling rigs in China. AETI also owns 41% of a JV with Sonepar, a private French company, in Singapore, which provides sales, engineering, manufacturing, and technical support for a variety of products across Southeast Asia.
In Brazil, AETI owned 49% of a JV with Beppe Hans Eddy Askerbo, providing electrical products and services to Brazilian energy industries. The company recently withdrew from this venture on April 15 of this year, but management indicates that it is looking to form a wholly owned Brazilian subsidiary. This is a positive development, as Brazil is a very important market for AETI because of its rapid energy growth. Brazil, along with China, is expected to see a more than 70% increase in energy demand within the next twenty years. A strong international presence is a catalyst for growth going forward and provides diversified market exposure.
Strategic Refocusing
The management of AETI has done well identifying trends in its product lines and adjusting the business accordingly. TP&S has been the company's most successful business division accounting for 75% of net sales in 2013. TP&S has experienced increased order volume and growing margins, primarily because of the oil and gas industry. This development is positive, because oil and gas is poised to continue seeing an increase in capital spending. Upstream exploration and production spending in North America has increased 46% from $243B in 2009 to $355B in 2013. Now, midstream and downstream capital spending is increasing to keep pace, with midstream surging 263% from $12.8B in 2012 to $46.4B in 2013 and downstream increasing 60% from $15.5B in 2010 to $24.7B in 2013. AETI stands to gain from these developments, as it has already begun to profit from the increasing demand.
To focus on these positive trends, AETI has downplayed some of its other sectors. Within E&I, AETI completed a strategic exit from its waste-water business in 2012, which has boosted margins. Now management is initiating a strategic review of the AAT sector, which has been struggling recently. A sale or spin-off of AAT could unlock value to the company and shareholders.
Industry Outlook and Comparison
AETI mainly operates in the electrical equipment industry, which is poised to expand going forward. As demand for energy-efficient electrical equipment continues to grow, companies like AETI will benefit. Additionally, in 2008 the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission said that there would be a tremendous investment needed to upgrade the country's aging energy infrastructure. With its exposure to the large oil and gas industry, as well as renewable energy sources like solar, biomass, and geothermal, AETI is strategically positioned to grow.
The fundamentals of the company also present a solid investment opportunity. AETI has a P/E of 14.42, compared to an industry average of 37.92. Its forward P/E of 14.75 is also better than the industry average of 26.39. Many of AETI's main competitors are mostly domestic, but AETI has enough international exposure to hedge some of its risk and experience growth from many different sources.
Risks
Although AETI is well-positioned in its industry and markets, it is still a very small company that could allow bigger competitors to come in and take market share. Additionally, the oil and gas industry accounts for 62% of AETI's 2013 revenue, so any slowdown in that industry would adversely affect AETI. There is a also a chance that the rapid growth in the upstream and midstream sectors may be reaching a peak, meaning AETI will not experience a substantial benefit going forward. Despite these risks, AETI is still a solid company that presents an excellent investment opportunity.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071619:02
SYMBOL = IBM
IBM meets Buffett's strictest test for economic excellence, a Fortune Return on Equity study he cited in his 1987 letter.
Buffett's IBM purchase price was ~10x Pre-Tax earnings, a price guideline he has adhered to in several past purchases, as summarized in my article.
IBM's current share price has an embedded growth assumption of only 1.5% a year as investors and the financial media are very bearish on IBM.
Academic research has shown that investors will earn better returns by focusing on stocks that have very low expectations for growth according to analysts.
IBM earns high profit margins, and profit margins are "The Ultimate Source of Investor Returns," as they are both persistent and predictable.
Warren Buffett and IBM
"Face up to two unpleasant facts: the future is never clear and you pay a very high price for a cheery consensus. Uncertainty is the friend of the buyer of long-term values."
-- Warren Buffett; CEO of Berkshire Hathaway (NYSE:BRK.A)(NYSE:BRK.B) Forbes Magazine Article
"The other thing I would say about IBM, too, is that a few years back they had 240 million options outstanding, now they are down to about 30 million. They treat their stock with reverence, which I find is unusual among big companies. Or they really...they really are thinking about the shareholder."
-- Warren Buffett, CNBC November 14, 2011
The investing media and individual investors are consistently asking the question: "What could Warren Buffett possibly see in a company like IBM?" And instead of studying Buffett's annual reports or looking at past acquisitions he has made for clues, the investing media seems to just give up on doing any research and concludes that the IBM purchase is some type of rare anomaly from a bad Warren Buffett Coca-Cola bender.
In reality, the IBM acquisition is "Classic Buffett," as Charlie Munger stated (Of Permanent Value, Volume 1 of 3), and I'll explain why the IBM acquisition is classic Buffett in using Buffett's yardsticks for return on capital, purchase price, capital allocation, and management quality as discussed in his letters to shareholders and at the annual meetings in Omaha. In addition, I will examine current investor and analyst sentiment on IBM and see if the company presents an opportunity in terms of some of the behavioral investing parameters emphasized by Buffett over the years.
Buffett Metric #1: Return on Equity and Return on Invested Capital -- 1987 Fortune Magazine Study
"The Fortune study I mentioned earlier supports our view. Only 25 of the 1,000 companies met two tests of economic excellence - an average return on equity of over 20% in the ten years, 1977 through 1986, and no year worse than 15%. These business superstars were also stock market superstars: During the decade, 24 of 25 outperformed the S&P 500."
-- Warren Buffett; 1987 Letter to Shareholders
"Over the long term, it's hard for a stock to earn a much better return that the business which underlies it earns. If the business earns six percent on capital over forty years, you're not going to make that much different than a six percent return - even if you originally buy it at a huge discount. Conversely, if a business earns eighteen percent on capital over twenty or thirty years, even if you pay an expensive looking price, you'll end up with one hell of a result."
-- Charlie Munger; Vice President; Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.A, BRK.B)
Both Warren Buffett and his partner Charlie Munger have stressed the importance of returns on capital earned by a company, especially a company a potential investor is looking at for investment purposes over a long period of time. High returns on capital are also the single best indicator of a company with a wide business moat or significant competitive advantage according to Buffett and that is the type of company Buffett and Munger covet most since their shift to purchasing high-quality businesses with the acquisition of See's Candies in 1972 for $25 million.
In his 1987 Berkshire Hathaway letter to shareholders, Warren Buffett described the ultimate test of economic excellence for a company and its management. In the letter Buffett mentioned a Fortune magazine study documented in their 1987 annual investment issue regarding long-term returns on equity experienced by the 1,000 largest companies in the previous 10-year period.
The requirements of the test were so difficult that only 2.5% of the largest 1,000 companies passed the test. The test contained two simple criteria: 1) an average return on equity of 20% per year for the previous 10 years, and 2) No single year in the ten-year period where return on equity was below 15%. When looking at prospective investments, I often see how the company measures up according to this very difficult test, and few pass it. Based on my past research, I know that longtime Buffett protégé Ted Weschler favorite Davita (NYSE:DVA) passes the test, but it would be interesting to see how other Berkshire investments measure up, particularly IBM.
IBM's long-term financials on the Value Line Investment Survey website show that the company has consistently been able to earn extremely high returns on equity and on invested capital. In fact, as of 12/31/13, IBM's return on equity is good enough to pass the Fortune test of economic excellence mentioned above. For the 10-year period ended 12/31/2013, IBM's average return on equity was 59.7% (significantly above 20% hurdle) and there was no individual year where return on equity was less than 15%.
Incredibly, IBM's return on invested capital actually passes the test as well. For the 10-year period ending 12/31/13, average return on total capital was 29.7% (9.7% over 20% hurdle) and no individual year was below 15%. Considering the statistics Buffett mentioned (25 out of 1,000 passed), this was an incredible achievement for IBM, considering only 2.5% of the largest 1,000 companies are typically able to pass both tests in a given year. The numbers from Value Line Investment Survey are shown in the table below:
"The aversion to equities that Charlie and I exhibit today is far from congenital. We love owning common stocks - if they can be purchased at attractive prices. In my 61 years of investing, 50 or so years have offered that kind of opportunity. There will be years like that again. Unless, however, we can see a very high probability of at least 10% pre-tax returns (which translate to 6.5-7% after corporate tax), we will sit on the sidelines. With short-term money returning less than 1% after-tax, sitting it out is no fun. But occasionally successful investing requires inactivity."
--Warren Buffett; 2002 Berkshire Hathaway letter to shareholders
Over the years Buffett has consistently mentioned his desire to purchase companies at a price of 9-10x pre-tax earnings. The one specific example I can remember is the May 5, 2012 Berkshire Hathaway annual meeting that I attended in Omaha. I have the remarks handwritten in my notes from that meeting, and also double checked with the notes of other Berkshire annual meeting note-takers just to confirm.
During the 2012 Berkshire annual meeting question #23 dealt (2012 Berkshire Mtg. notes of Peter Boodell and Ben Claremon) with how to value Berkshire's operating (non-insurance) businesses to ultimately arrive at an intrinsic value for Berkshire. During his response to this question Buffett commented that he would love to purchase operating businesses with similar characteristics to Berkshire's existing operating businesses at a purchase price of 9-10x pre-tax earnings. In concluding his response to the question Buffett also commented if he found a target company with these characteristics he might even pay more than 9-10x pre-tax earnings depending on the situation.
Despite Buffett consistently commenting that he prefers valuing a business on what a rational businessperson would pay for the business in a private transaction, some investors still argue that the 9-10x pre-tax multiple is somehow only related to private deals and not publicly listed companies. I don't believe this to be true as Buffett has consistently commented that he approaches acquisitions in both arenas the same, and an examination of Buffett's recent public company stock purchases (Coke, Burlington Northern Santa Fe, etc.) shows that the purchase price of the public companies consistently meets the 10x pre-tax earnings requirement.
One of my favorite value investors, The Brooklyn Investor, has an excellent post ("10x Pretax Earnings! Case studies: KO, BNI, etc.") where he lays out several case studies of Buffett's stock purchases and how they measure in comparison to the 9-10x pre-tax earnings valuation metric. I'll summarize the acquisition multiples from his blog post below (see the Brooklyn Investor Website for calculations). I highly recommend subscribing to his blog and reading the historical posts as well. He has some excellent and accurate insight you won't find anywhere else.
It seems that a significant number of Buffett's stock purchases are all within a very close range of the 9-10x pre-tax earnings number Buffett has mentioned several times. You'll find that some deals are in excess of this hurdle by a larger margin, including Heinz, but as I described above, Buffett has stated he's willing to pay over 10x pretax earnings if a business has the right characteristics. In the case of Heinz Buffett was also willing to pay a premium for the management of 3G Capital as he was familiar with their absolutely incredible management track record. I highly recommend Cristiane Correa's book on 3G capital, Dream Big: How the Trio Behind 3G Capital - Jorge Paulo Lemann, Marcel Telles, and Beto Sicupira - acquired Annheuser Busch, Burger King, and Heinz.
The IBM acquisition in 2011 averaged a purchase price of 9.7x pre-tax earnings as seen above. A valuation of less than 10x pre-tax earnings meets one of Buffett's business acquisition purchase price ceiling of approximately 10x pre-tax earnings. So from a price and valuation perspective, the acquisition makes perfect sense in light of what Buffett has historically paid for companies.
Buffett Metric #3: The $1 Test: Retained Earnings to Market Value
"Within this gigantic auction arena, it is our job to select businesses with economic characteristics allowing each dollar of retained earnings to be translated eventually into at least a dollar of market value."
- Warren Buffett; 1982 Berkshire Hathaway letter to shareholders
Warren Buffett acquired his $11 billion stake in IBM during 2011 at an average price of $170 per share. During the 10 years leading up to Buffett's purchase (2001-2011), IBM's combined net income was roughly $108 billion, of which $20 billion was paid to shareholders as a dividend. This left IBM with approximately $88 billion to reinvest into the business over the ten year period. During that same 10-year period IBM's total market capitalization (stock price) rose by $80 billion. This equates to the business creating approximately 90 cents of market value for each dollar of retained earnings, and does not meet Buffett's "$1 test" by a margin of 10%.
While this acquisition didn't pass the $1 test criteria, IBM certainly came close to passing, and Buffett does bend the thresholds on his criteria from time to time, as discussed above in the case of the Heinz acquisition exceeding Buffett's 10x pre-tax earnings valuation. In the case of IBM, the company managed to create 90 cents of market value for each dollar of retained earnings, an impressive 10-year track record that is very difficult to achieve, especially given IBM's size at the beginning of the period. I think in this case Buffett concluded that 90 cents of market value for each dollar of retained earnings was close enough in the case of IBM.
Buffett Metric #4: Owner Earnings
"Your goal as an investor should simply be to purchase, at a rational price, a part interest in an easily-understandable business whose earnings are virtually certain to be materially higher five, ten, and twenty years from now. Over time you will find only a few companies that meet these standards - so when you see one that qualifies, you should buy a meaningful amount of stock. You must also resist the temptation to stray from your guidelines: If you aren't willing to hold a stock for ten years, don't think about owning it for ten minutes."
-- Warren Buffet; 1986 Berkshire Hathaway Letter to Shareholders
While IBM has experienced several years where revenue has declined significantly (2004-05, 2008-09, 2011-13), over the long-term the company has consistently increased earnings and cash flow at a significant rate as evidenced by the chart from the Value Line Investment Survey below:
                   
IBM's 2015 road map calls for earnings per share of $20, so it would seem that this company would be a good bet to materially increase owner earnings over the long-term if you have confidence in management's ability to successfully execute the strategies outlined in the 2015 road map.
Buffett Metric #5: Quality Businesses with Consistent Profitability - "The Ultimate Source of Investment Returns"
"Put simply, profitability is the ultimate source of investment returns. Contrary to popular belief, profitability can be forecast and superior profitability persists. Investors systematically undervalue the unexciting stability of Quality stocks. Rather than being beholden to some black box model of low volatility, or held hostage to some arbitrary optimizer, we prefer to focus on real economic risk. We would argue that a fundamental focus on profitability remains the best way to minimize the true risk with which investors should be concerned."
-- Chuck Joyce and Kimball Mayer; GMO White Paper; "Profits for the Long Run: Affirming the Case for Quality"
Although Buffett began his investing career investing in businesses that were often poor quality and selling extremely cheaply, often less than tangible book value; his approach evolved and began to change significantly around the time Berkshire Hathaway acquired See's Candy, a business of exceptional quality that was much more expensive (relative to operating metrics) than Berkshire's past acquisitions. It was at this point that Buffett began searching for high quality businesses with consistent profits that were selling at a fair price.
Many experts were shocked when Buffett bought the seemingly inconsistent and unpredictable IBM in 2011 especially since Buffett had spent the last 30-40 years buying high-quality, very predictable businesses. In the case of IBM it appears there are two distinct possibilities: (1) Buffett is deviating from his investing approach and making an unpredictable tech investment (2) Contrary to popular belief, IBM has a consistent and predictable business.
When researching this article, I came upon the updated 3rd edition of the first book I ever read about Warren Buffett, The Warren Buffett Way by Robert Hagstrom, who is still my all-time favorite author when it comes to Warren Buffett books. The new edition contains what I've found is the best description of IBM's business quality. Hagstrom states that consulting and systems integration contribute 52 percent of IBM's revenue; 32 percent comes from IT outsourcing, and 16 percent from business process outsourcing. He shows that IBM is the number one global provider of consulting and systems integration, roughly 38 percent larger than Accenture, the next closest competitor. In the global IT outsourcing market, IBM is also number one, and roughly 78 percent larger than the next closest competitor - Hewlett Packard. In business process outsourcing, IBM is the seventh largest provider.
Although technology sectors like hardware and semiconductors are very cyclical in nature, Hagstrom illustrates that the IT services sector benefits from relatively stable growth prospects. In fact, IT services like consulting, systems integration, and IT outsourcing are thought to have "moat-like" qualities according to Morningstar Investment Research. Hagstrom details an interview he conducted with Grady Burkett, the associate director of technology at Morningstar, who demonstrated that intangible assets like track record, reputation, and client relationships are the sources of a moat in consulting and systems integration. Burkett also mentioned that in IT outsourcing, switching costs and scale advantages create their own moats, ensuring customers remain loyal for many years after the initial contract. Companies with moats like those mentioned above typically have high profit margins and returns on invested capital for long-time periods depending on the strength of the moat. It appears that IBM does indeed have a consistent, profitable, and predictable business of very high quality.
Research has shown that high quality companies with consistently high profit margins can greatly increase the investment returns of the long-term shareholder of such companies. In addition, a study done by Jeremy Grantham's firm GMO, LLC (quoted above) has shown that profitability is both predictable and consistent, whereas growth in earnings and revenue revert rapidly to the mean and are extremely unpredictable. The study also notes that industries in Oligopoly-like conditions tend to stay that way much longer than traditional economic theory would suggest.
Over the past 10+ years, IBM has focused on expanding their profit margins, and they have succeeded in improving profit margins from 8.5% in 2002 to over 15% currently. As such, it appears that IBM is a very desirable investment in terms of profit margins.
Buffett Metric #6: Management's Track Record
"I have no use whatsoever for projections or forecasts. They create an illusion of apparent precision. The more meticulous they are, the more concerned you should be. We never look at projections, but we care very much about, and look very deeply at, track records. If a company has a lousy track record, but a very bright future, we will miss the opportunity."
-- Warren Buffett (Seeking Wisdom: From Darwin to Munger, 3rd Ed.)
"And incidentally, the company (NYSE:IBM) laid it out extremely well. I don't think there's any company that's -- that I can think of, big company, that's done a better job of laying out where they're going to go and having gone there. They have laid out a road map and I should've paid more attention to it five years ago where they were going to go in five years ending in 2010. Now they've laid out another road map for 2015. They've done an incredible job."
--Warren Buffett discussing his decision to invest in IBM on CNBC, November 14, 2011
IBM's management has done an exceptional job in the past of achieving the long-term goals they set for the company. In the above referenced CNBC interview in 2011 Buffett mentioned the five-year period ending in 2010. Over this period IBM exceeded management's goal (originally stated at the beginning of 2007) by delivering earnings per share of $11.53 per share; significantly higher than the range management had set as a goal for 2010 EPS ($10-$11). Over this same five-year period, IBM's stock price increased from $70.82 to $137.67 and the company paid out dividends of approximately $9.15 per share. That results in a stock price appreciation of 94.39% and dividend yield of 12.92% on the stock price at the beginning of the period ($70.82 on 1/3/06). Over the same period (2006-2010), the S&P 500 (with dividends included) returned approximately 25.9%. The end result to the shareholder of the original five-year roadmap was a return that outpaced the S&P by 81.41%.
IBM's management has also been incredibly transparent, despite what you may have read in BusinessWeek. The author of the recent BusinessWeek cover story on IBM claimed that an increase in the phrase "non-GAAP" over the period 2009-2013 was an indication of management's dishonestly and lack of transparency. He made this claim without comparing the increase to the increases (or lack thereof) in other public company financial statements over the same time period (or if he had, it was included in his article). If someone had researched this, they probably would have realized that the increase in references to "non-GAAP" amounts was the result of SEC disclosure guidance that came out in 2010, and was responsible for the increase. So the company was actually changing the disclosure due to a SEC rule change, not because of any lack of management transparency. They were following the rules to the letter, not breaking them as it appears they're accused of in the article.
IBM's annual reports are some of the most detailed and informative reports I've seen from any public company, and management does an excellent job of setting long-term goals that the average shareholder can measure the company's operating performance against. And the company is correct to focus on the "non-GAAP" earnings number, as it is a more accurate reflection of the economic reality of the business. But don't take my word for it; Warren Buffett had this to say about "non-GAAP" earnings in his 2011 letter to shareholders: "Non-real" amortization expense also looms large at some of our major investees. IBM has made many small acquisitions in recent years and now regularly reports "adjusted operating earnings," a non-GAAP figure that excludes certain purchase-accounting adjustments. Analysts focus on this number, as they should."
Buffett Metric #7: Mr. Market
"Failing conventionally is the route to go; as a group lemmings may have a rotten image; but no individual lemming has ever received bad press."
-- Warren Buffett; 1984 Letter to Berkshire Hathaway (NYSE:BRK.B) shareholders
"Who's more foolish, the fool or the fool who follows him?"
-- Obi Wan Kenobi
Warren Buffett often references the behavior of Mr. Market, a psychotic person who is willing to sell you the pieces of public companies for extremely irrational prices upon occasion. Buffett also emphasizes the importance of "being greedy when others are fearful, and fearful when others are greedy." Taking advantage of irrational investor behavior has been very advantageous to Buffett over the years.
One has to look no further than a recent BusinessWeek cover story entitled "The Trouble with IBM" to gauge market sentiment on IBM. Not only was the article begging questions, missing points, and full of serious gaps and slips in logical thinking; it appeared to contain several statements and ideas that were factually inconsistent, similar to the discussion of "Non-GAAP" items above. I will address some of the highlights of the BusinessWeek argument against IBM in the following paragraphs.
The author spends the vast majority of the article on IBM's cloud business and seemingly concludes that IBM's cloud business is failing based on one lost government contract which he mistakenly quotes as a $600 million contract, when $600 million was the ceiling, not the final agreed upon price (less than $200 million) He neglected to mention any other quantitative data on the cloud business, and didn't seem to notice that IBM consolidated cloud revenue increased 69% year over year from 2012 to 2013, and this was an 80+% increase over 2011. It seems to me that looking at the business as a whole makes a lot more sense than one isolated contract.
IBM Consolidated Cloud Revenue
The consolidated cloud data is easily found at the beginning of IBM's annual report, and is much more relevant than one single contract.
There were multiple mentions of "eight straight quarters of declining quarterly revenue" under IBM's new CEO, but upon closer examination this statement doesn't seem to hold up either. Notice IBM's quarterly revenues according to the Value Line Investment Survey:
I believe what the author was referring to was the fact that for the last eight quarters, IBM's quarterly revenue has been lower than quarterly revenue one year ago during the same quarter (ex. Q2 2013 revenue lower than Q2 2012 revenue, etc.). While it's true that quarterly revenues have been lower than their prior year counterparts for eight quarters in a row, there have not been eight straight quarters of declining quarterly revenue (see table above) when compared to the previous quarter, and the article leads the reader to believe there have been eight straight quarters of revenue declines as compared to previous quarter, which isn't the case.
The article continued to blast IBM, yet offered almost no statistics on the operating performance of the business, other than a general picture of consolidated quarterly revenue declines, and a mention of declining hardware revenue with no context for what was happening in terms of business cyclicality. The author used terms like "mega-trend" and "downward spiral" yet never explained what these terms mean specifically, and what quantitative evidence there was to support the claims. While he did cite a significant decline in hardware revenue year-over-year and labeled it a "downward spiral," he failed to inform the reader that IBM's hardware business is cyclical and at the tail-end of a cycle. He also failed to mention how small hardware and cloud revenue are to the consolidated revenue of the company. Together they make up less than 20% of 2013 consolidated revenue. Information like the cyclicality of the business and size of each segment is absolutely crucial to understanding the business, yet it was inexplicably left out.
When discussing the company's 2015 Roadmap, he labeled the plan "RoadKill" based on a few random disgruntled employee blog posts and seemed to dislike a plan that was increasing earnings when revenue was decreasing simultaneously. In his explanation of what was causing this phenomenon, he left out the single biggest driving factor of increased earnings even in the face of declining revenues: margin expansion. IBM's annual report show that this has been the most significant contributor to increased EPS both recently and over the past 10-years. The article failed to mention this, and instead mentioned things like "layoffs, stock buybacks, tax planning, and business divestiture." One is left to wonder if they either intentionally left out margin expansion because it didn't fit their narrative of "big, bad, evil" IBM, or if it was just negligence.
The BusinessWeek article also mentioned that the analyst community was extremely bearish on IBM, a sure sign of doom for the company. Although in light of academic research, this conclusion is extremely illogical. The author never mentioned why we should listen to analysts, or if following analysts has led to successful investing in the past, he simply assumed that following analysts is the correct thing to do, without considering any evidence. Academic research has actually shown that the opposite approach (buying stocks with low expected analyst growth) is much more profitable.
Several studies have shown that investors can achieve the highest returns by purchasing stocks that have the lowest expected earnings growth according to analysts. A study by LaPorta (1996, cited in Montier's classic "Value Investing") showed that stocks with the highest long-term earnings growth forecasts produce the lowest returns to shareholders. In 2007 this study was updated (Forsyth; also see Montier's "Value Investing") and the results were consistent. Using 3,200 stocks from 1982-2006, those with the highest average forecast growth rates ended up delivering 11.5% per year, whereas the stocks with the lowest average growth forecast returned 14.5% per year.
The BusinessWeek article quotes the opinions of two "expert" investors, Bill Fleckenstein and Fred Hickey. There is no explanation as to why the reader should listen to these two men, or how their stock picks have performed in the past. We're simply told that they short IBM stock; one has a popular blog, and may or may not have a hedge fund. These two IBM bears are quoted and give their opinions on "funky financial statements," and their desire for "tangible asset growth at tech companies," but don't provide much in the way of actual facts, statistics, or numbers. We aren't even told if their IBM short position has been successful historically. The short sellers complaint about the lack of an increase in "tangible assets," at IBM reminded me of a quote from John Stuart, the chairman of Quaker in 1900, "If this business were split up, I would give you the land and bricks and mortar, and I would take the brands and the trademarks, and I would fare better than you."
In addition, the article fails to mention the other side of the argument, where prominent hedge fund investors Warren Buffett, Ray Dalio, Joel Greenblatt, David Dreman, Jeremy Grantham, and a host of other famous investors with verifiable track records are long IBM stock. We aren't provided any information on investors long the stock other than Buffett, and I would take his side in an argument against Bill Fleckenstein and Fred Hickey 100% of the time. So it appears the IBM article was a bit one-sided, to say the least; but don't take my word for it, follow the link above and read through it yourself.
Another gauge we can look at to measure investor and analyst sentiment is a discounted cash flow analysis. I'm not going to attempt to value IBM based on my subjective ideas for growth in the future, many on this site have already done an excellent job developing their own independent DCF calculations. In addition, it's extremely difficult to predict cash flows into the future, and as Third Avenue Management once stated, "DCF is like the Hubble telescope; move it an inch and you'll end up studying a different galaxy." Instead I will simply use the DCF to see what growth rates are embedded in the current share price. At the current $186 share price (as of the time this article was written), IBM would simply have to grow its earnings at 1.5% a year in perpetuity. Based on IBM's current share price, it seems that analyst and investor expectations for growth are extremely low.
It seems Mr. Market has a pretty negative opinion of IBM lately, and investors have a chance to be greedy when most are very fearful of the company. Some prominent hedge fund investors are already taking advantage of this opportunity, as IBM is currently a holding of Warren Buffett, Joel Greenblatt, Jeremy Grantham, David Dreman, Ray Dalio, and several other prominent fund managers (based on SEC filings). I don't know about you, but I'd rather take the side of the argument that Buffett, Grantham and Dalio are on, as opposed to the side with BusinessWeek, Bill Fleckenstein and Fred Hickey.
Conclusion -- Is the Honeymoon Over?
"Now ask yourself how you came to define the problem as you see it. In all likelihood your view was influenced by the popular press....Here is the broader point: whatever problem you are trying to solve, make sure you're not just attacking the noisy part of the problem that captures your attention."
-- Steven D. Levitt; Think Like a Freak
The BusinessWeek cover story concluded that the "honeymoon was over" for Warren Buffett and IBM due to the company's recent performance. Instead of listening to their opinion, and the opinion of the investment media, let's see what Warren Buffett himself has to say about it. When asked about IBM in the fall of 2013 on the Charlie Rose Show Buffett commented, "They will have record per-share earnings this year ... that can be disappointing if you expected more. But it is not a bad record, believe me." In addition, Buffett stated in his 2011 shareholder letter that a long-term IBM shareholder should wish for the stock price to "languish" over the next five years to provide the company to increase value the most significantly through share buybacks. So it appears that for Buffett, the honeymoon with IBM is just beginning.
In this article I've shown that IBM meets Buffett's criteria for return on capital, purchase price (10x earnings), value creation, profitability, and also fits within his model for behavioral investing. And although many experts lament Buffett's lack of technology expertise, perhaps it is time to trust Buffett's opinion on tech companies, because as Eric Breisacher, regional director at software developer RSA, once stated, "He knows about technology, probably more than we do (From a Bloomberg article in October 2002, quoted in "Of Permanent Value Volume 1)." As Warren Buffett said on CNBC when discussing his investment (paraphrasing Thoreau), "it's not what you look at, but what you see."
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071620:57
SYMBOL = SAN
Santander is seen as another Southern European bank.
However, the bank was able to maintain healthy levels of capital and liquidity.
In the current scenario, banks with liquidity have access to good assets at attractive prices.
Santander Bank has a good track record of making good deals when the opportunities arrive.
Currently, Santander (NYSE:SAN) has been perceived as another Southern European bank. However, Santander is the biggest Euro zone bank, in terms of market capitalization, with presence in several high profile markets like: U.K., U.S., Brazil, Mexico, Germany, among others.
Graph 1 - Santander Profit Distribution (Source: Santander strategy presentation)
Looking to the Graph 1, we can see that the company's profits are not dependent on a single geography. This, probably, helps to explain why this Spanish bank did not have any quarterly loss since 2007 (Source: Santander strategy presentation). On the other hand, the stable earnings base has helped the bank achieving a total capital ratio around 12.1%, which is well above the 8% minimum required.
Strong liquidity position helps business
With a stable and diversified earnings source and a strong capital position, Santander has been mostly focused in streamlining its current operations while making some acquisitions, taking the opportunity to close interesting deals. One of those deals, the acquisition of a 470 million stake in Bank of Shanghai (Source: Financial Times), perhaps signals an incursion into the Asian banking market. While other banks in trouble have been mostly selling good assets in order to boost capital ratios, Santander has been able to take an opportunistic approach to the current environment.
The opportunistic banking deals have been in Santander's DNA for a long time. In 1993, Santander bought a significant position in the U.S. bank, First Union (Source: High Beam). In 1997, Santander sold the position at a hefty profit, just in time to buy the Brazilian Bank, Banespa in the beginning of the millennium (source: New York Times). Needless to say, Brazil represented 20% of Santander's profits in the 2013 exercise.
Since 2008, Santander has been on a spree of acquisitions. The bank took advantage of the opportunity created by the financial crisis, to buy the totality of the Sovereign Bank (Source: Bloomberg). From 2010 to 2012, Santander bought two Polish banks, which together are worth around 10% of the market share in deposits (Source: Bloomberg). As we can see in Graph 1, the U.S. and Poland, already represent 15% of the Santander's profits.
Building an asset base during fire sales must be good for business.
Most banks were caught off guard during the 2008 crisis. The impact of the crisis was amplified by strict regulations in terms of capital levels. This meant that many banks had to sell some of their best assets in order to be able to have asset sales gains that generated positive impact on capital levels. The problem with this approach is that it resolves the capital problem in short term, but reduces the asset base quality, which means lower profitability in the long run.
Santander, on the other hand, wasn't caught off guard. The bank always relied mostly on traditional banking and wasn't relying too much on leverage. This way, when the storm came, Santander had the flexibility to adapt to new capital levels demands while keeping a liquidity slack to take advantage from circumstances. I am guessing that in the following years, the bank's asset base will be more profitable than in the past.
Angles to cover
No investment is ever perfect, there are always some risks that are hard to quantify. In the case of Santander, there's the huge influence that the Botín family still maintains in the bank. On the other hand, Emilio Botín, 79 years old, has been held as the main responsible for the huge growth that the bank achieved during the last 3 decades. Clearly, the succession plans will be a major concern, for the bank, in the following years.
Santander has been able to meet capital levels while maintaining the liquidity to address interesting opportunities. I believe that the deals that the bank made recently will contribute positively for a stronger balance sheet than it had before the sovereign debt crisis. I think this will be evident once the Spanish operations normalize.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071621:18
SYMBOL = BAC
Bank of America Corporation’s Earnings Decline 43% on Legal Costs.
A number of external factors have been making the banking sector a particularly favorable sector to invest in this year.
Bank of America Corporation’s cost cutting program: many wonder how long it actually will take for the bank to resolve the issues.
At the same time, however, the Bank of America has reported a higher P/E ratio than CitiGroup, JPMorgan Chase & Co and Wells Fargo & Company.
Bank of America Corporation's Earnings Decline 43% on Legal Costs
Bank of America Corporation (NYSE:BAC) said on Wednesday that its Q2 profit plunged 43 percent, dragged down by a large legal expense that overshadowed some otherwise positive expected results.
The bank reported profit of $2.04 billion, or 19 cents per share, on revenue of $22 billion in second-quarter. Wall Street analysts had expected profit around 29 cents a share, but that analysts estimate did not take into account large litigation costs. The BAC's revenue exceeded analysts' estimates of about $21.6 billion. Bank of America Corporation's CEO, Brian Moynihan, is still optimistic about consumer spending and the bank's working ability to generate revenue from investment banking.
Is Bank of America the best banking pick?
If the dividends offered was the only criteria for investment, a number of good stocks would not be invested in as much as they should be. Take for example the Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) which had a rather negative image in the investors' realm, following the global financial crisis. With a dividend yield of merely 0.2%, the Bank of America is one of the weakest dividend payers amongst the Who's Who of banking. However, the bank is still a good option to be investing in. Here's why:
Bank of America Corporation's cost cutting program:
Bank of America Corporation has been pursuing an aggressive cost cutting program. In the past two years, BAC has managed to save nearly $2 billion. At the same time, the Bank has been continuously improving its credit quality. This has led to speculation that the earnings per share for the Bank of America Corporation will continue to precipitously rise over the years and will grow from 90 cents in 2013 to $1.32 this year.
External factors:
A number of external factors have been making the banking sector a particularly favorable sector to invest in this year. Interest rates are increasing, which means that the banks' net interest margins will further rise. This will obviously be a massive boost for Bank of America, which would in turn report higher revenues in the days to come, thus making it a generally profitable investment.
Excess liquidity:
The Bank of America has hundreds of billions of dollars of extra liquid assets, that it can use very effectively to increase its earnings. This can directly increase the earnings per share thus promising a favorable situation for investors in the days to come. However, the bank's policies play a very crucial role here; this success is only guaranteed provided the bank actually uses its excess liquid assets effectively.
These and a lot more factors indicate that BAC is a solid investment. However, this brings us to our next question; is it the best option? Clearly there are a number of other players in the banking sector. It is important to determine whether investing in them might be more profitable. Let's take a look at what options are available for investors as compared to BAC and which options are the most suitable.
Bank of America has reported lower earnings per share as compared to Citigroup (NYSE:C) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE:JPM) and Wells Fargo and Company (NYSE:WFC). This shows that despite the same external conditions, other banks are performing better as far as earnings are concerned. Furthermore, the bank's main savings have not occurred as a result of improved performance but have resulted due to better cost savings. The main concern with this is the sustainability of these cost cuts; will the bank be able to continue cutting costs in the long run?
At the same time, however, the Bank of America has reported a higher P/E ratio than Citigroup, JPMorgan and Wells Fargo. This reveals that in the future, higher earnings per share are expected from this bank, thus making it a desirable investment.
Another reason that makes this bank lucrative is the fact that its Tier 1 capital ratio has been better than that of most other 'big' banks. There have been constant efforts to improve the quality of the capital owned by the bank as well.
After the global financial crisis uncertainty might have shrouded Bank of America Corporation, but peddling the bank as not being worthy of investment would be harsh as well. Hence, individual preferences of the investors need to be gauged. Bank of America Corporation may not be the most profitable investment as things stand; however, it does have promise strong returns in the long run. Therefore, the question that we need to ask ourselves is whether one is going for a short term investment or willing to slug it out in the long run.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014080615:51
SYMBOL = CAT
Caterpillar has been a consistent outperformer of the S&P.
Recent market volatility could provide potential "sale" on the current share price.
The company is relatively fairly valued at current levels.
Caterpillar Incorporated (NYSE:CAT) is the world's largest producer of construction and earth moving equipment. Caterpillar operates in the road building, mining, logging, agriculture, petroleum, and generic construction industries. Some of Caterpillar's best-selling products include tractors, scrapers, graders, compactors, loaders, and truck engines, among others. Caterpillar historically has been a strong performing stock, which is why I decided to research it further. Given the recent market volatility, opportunities for solid companies available at discount prices tend to present themselves.
Caterpillar was recently in the news for announcing additional share buybacks, which is always great news for investors. Caterpillar plans to repurchase an additional $2.5 billion in stock during the third quarter of 2014. This stock buyback comes in addition to the recent 17% increase in its quarterly dividend that was announced in June. Caterpillar is in the fortunate position to have a strong cash position which allows for it to be able to return cash back to their shareholders.
As mentioned previously, Caterpillar has historically been a strong performer. Taking a look at some growth charts, it becomes apparent that Caterpillar has consistently been able to outperform the S&P.
The chart above shows that since the market recession Caterpillar has been able to outperform the S&P.
Looking at a longer term chart, the amount of market outperformance has been an even larger margin. Historically speaking, Caterpillar has outperformed both the industry and the S&P averages.
Both Charts Courtesy of Morningstar
From a valuation standpoint Caterpillar is also fairly attractive. Caterpillar currently trades at a price to earnings ratio of roughly 17.1, which is lower than the current S&P average of around 18.2 but above the industry average of 13.1. Caterpillar can be considered the "best of breed" for its industry, which can help justify the higher price to earnings ratio for the company. When taking a look at Caterpillar's growth rate, we can make a comparison to its price to earnings ratio. Caterpillar currently has a PEG ratio (price to earnings in relation to growth rate) of around 1.1, which means it is currently trading at a multiple roughly even with its growth rate. This means that the stock is currently fairly valued, which means in market downturns the shares may be available at "bargain" prices.
Additionally, Caterpillar currently yields 2.5%, which is above the industry average of 2.2% and the S&P average of 2.3%. Investors seeking additional stability and cash flow may find value in Caterpillar stock.
The company continues to expand into China as well as other emerging markets such as Brazil, Russia, and India that should provide for additional growth opportunities. Caterpillar hopes to continue their outperformance and achieve its goals for continued revenue growth.
Caterpillar was recently in the news for reporting revenue that fell short of analyst expectations. The company posted second quarter revenues of $14.15 billion, versus $14.62 billion a year ago. Analysts had predicted revenue of $14.47 billion according to the consensus estimate from Thomas Reuters. Caterpillar was able to report second quarter adjusted earnings per share of $1.69 versus analyst estimates of only $1.52. Caterpillar's earnings per share for the same period last year was $1.45.
Caterpillar is not immune to other potential risk factors, some of which are beyond the control of the company. Risks such as global financial market volatility as well as political and economic risks could all lead to potential problems for the company. An example of a potential change would include changes in interest rates, which could potentially restrict the availability for financing for Caterpillar's clients.
The stock has had a considerable run-up in share price in recent years, hitting close to its 52 week high last month. Although this certainly isn't a "con," it is important to keep in mind entry points for any investment. Over the long-term, appreciation and growth should make entry points less of an issue for longer term investors.
Following the Peter Lynch methodology of investing based on personal observations and trends, Caterpillar's prospects seem strong. Although not true in all areas of the country, economic improvement has led to an increased amount of commercial developments and new construction. Additionally, this particularly cold winter has left a large amount of roads and bridges damaged, which will need to be repaired, reconstructed, or replaced. Given the large amount of infrastructure that is necessary for the United States and abroad, opportunities seem impressive for the company. Growth in developing countries is expected to remain strong based on news articles as well.
In conclusion, Caterpillar seems like it is fairly valued at current levels. The purpose of this article was to determine strong companies to purchase in economic volatility scenarios and Caterpillar seems to pass the test. The dividend yield provides current income and potential for reinvestment at various price levels and the company's strong cash position provides stability in volatility scenarios. For long-term investors seeking to hold the stock for five plus years, Caterpillar may be a worthy investment.
Disclaimer: This article is given for informational purposes only and is not to be construed as investment advice. Contact your investment professional and do your own due diligence before investing.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014080615:53
SYMBOL = MMM
3M reported record sales in the second quarter of $8.1 billion.
The operating margins should attract attention.
Leverage is impacting the Weighted Average Cost of Capital.
3M (NYSE:MMM) is a huge company with many segment lines and huge investments in research and development. For some investors, it may be difficult to tackle such a company. How should an investor examine such a company? Do it the same way you would eat a whale, one bite at a time. One great method for getting those pieces sectioned out is to use a DuPont Analysis. Using that analysis enables investors to see the trends in the company by breaking down several important metrics.
The effective tax rate was lower in first quarter than second quarter, but for the first half overall it is in line with previous years. No major concerns here. For investors that are new to DuPont, the "Tax Burden" and "Interest Burden" are the inverse of the intuitive meaning. The percentage showing up in "Tax Burden" Is the amount of "Earnings before taxes" that reaches "Net income attributable to common shareholders".
Interest Burden
Net interest expense has been a fairly small cost for 3M relative to their operations. Q2 costs were in line with the average over the previous few years. The very low interest burden for 3M could be considered an issue. It appears the company is using very low levels of leverage which may put them below their optimal weights for capital structure. We're expecting interest costs (and leverage) to increase slightly through the remainder of the year.
Operating Margins
Operating Margins were solid; they have also been trending better for years. A large part of what makes 3M desirable is their improving operating margins. This is the major factor driving the return on equity up. While calculating operating margins, research and development is expensed as incurred and included as an operating cost. 3M has been aggressively investing in research and development, so I wanted to see how that is working for them. The next table focuses on operating margins and removes the expenses for R&D.
From this table it is clear that the research and development has been paying off. Margins excluding R&D have been improving significantly each period. In addition to the improving margins, the investments in R&D have been growing. The increase in R&D matches the plans laid out by management. According to Forbes, "It has decided to gradually increase its annual investment in R&D from 5.0-5.5% to 6% of total sales by 2017".
The levels of asset turnover are driven by an increase in sales, not a reduction in assets. Given the historical figures here, part of the increase may not be sustainable. I'd expect the figures to drop back a tiny bit closer towards their long run averages. I only expect the decrease to be in the realm of 1 to 2% though.
Based on the DuPont Analysis it appears that leverage has been decreased, though only slightly. As investors familiar with DuPont will be aware, one of the weaknesses in using DuPont is the reliance on book value of equity. At times it can be very useful, but leverage can appear distorted from this picture. To handle that weakness, there are more tables. The next table will look at shares outstanding combined with cash and book value of equity.
From the above table we can discern a few things. The company's repurchasing of shares has increased recently. Given that cash values are not trending upwards, an enormous repurchase of shares would require debt financing. It seems more likely that the company will continue in about the same pace of repurchases they have been doing over the last six quarters. Based on the decrease in shares outstanding, it would appear the company is becoming more leveraged. To get a deeper picture of the leverage will require another table:
Without access to the market value of debt, the book value of liabilities will be used as a proxy. When looking at a company's WACC (Weighted Average Cost of Capital), it helps to be as close to market weights as possible. It appears using market weights (for equity) that the company has actually become significantly less leveraged as the value of their equity has been expanding. The company can't respond to every movement in their leverage, but the trend shows that their leverage has clearly decreased. I don't like this development, because I think the company should use more debt in their capital structure.
Expected changes in leverage
It was time to dig. I found the answer on page 65 of the 2014 Q2 10-Q. For simplicity sake, I'll quote the relevant part: "3M continues to manage towards a more optimized capital structure, financed with additional low-cost debt. The strength and stability of 3M's business model and strong free cash flow capability, together with proven capital markets access, enables 3M to implement this strategy while continuing to invest in its businesses. Organic growth remains the first priority, thus 3M will continue to invest in research and development, capital expenditures, and commercialization capability. In 2013, as a first step towards increasing capital deployment, 3M drew down its U.S. cash position to a minimum level and also reactivated its $3 billion commercial paper program. In 2014, 3M filed a new 'well-known seasoned issuer' shelf registration statement, and recommenced the Series F medium term notes program for future debt issuances."
Based on values from the end of Quarter 2, even if the company issued 4 billion in debt (rather than 3 billion) and used it all in share repurchases (without impacting the stock price), the Debt / (Debt + Equity) ratio would only be 16.18%. Since 3M is planning on less new debt than that, it appears that leverage will remain fairly low throughout the year, though it may be bumped up slightly from current levels. It is my opinion that the lowest WACC available to 3M includes a capital structure that uses more debt than the current structure. Therefore, I would support 3M issuing more debt to buy up shares of common stock. However, given the operating margins and the success of 3M's R&D, their priorities are correct. There is no reason, in my opinion, to believe that 3M's primary goals would be significantly impacted by improving their capital structure, which they have admitted is not optimal.
3M has done an admirable job of balancing conflicting desires. They have established a solid dividend, an aggressive share buyback program, and continued to increase their investments in R&D without sacrificing their operating margins. The company's suboptimal capital structure provides opportunities for significant increases in share buybacks (financed with debt) which creates an upside for current shareholders. I expect within the next year or two that management will announce an increase in their share repurchase program and fund the increase with debt. If that happens, I expect the announcement to be treated as positive news by the market.
It is rare to see companies erring on the side of caution. It feels like every other day I find companies that are over leveraged and poorly managed. That isn't the case here. 3M looks like a solid investment with reliable returns. By no means is that an excuse to ignore the need for diversification. When considering 3M as a part of a diversified long term portfolio, I am bullish on the stock.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014080616:38
SYMBOL = SBUX
Starbucks’ liquidity position has substantially deteriorated over the last year, it maintains substantial inventory, and its long-term asset/liability base deepened.
Starbucks reported excellent quarterly sales results, and its various profitability margins improved notably.
However, these gains belie an alternative explanation: Starbucks is using existing assets much more intensively because they cannot find or cannot fund faster growth in stores.
Starbucks (NASDAQ:SBUX) filed its quarterly results with the SEC on 29th July, and two highlights stand out from an otherwise stellar quarter.
Like its twin-tailed green siren mascot, Starbucks' most recent quarterly results tell two stories about current liquidity. On the one hand, Starbucks' year-over-year asset base changed dramatically and not for the better. On the other hand, Starbucks' strong sales reputation mitigates many of these potential risks.
First, current assets declined notably. Cash and equivalents fell from $2575.7 million in 2013Q2 to $1019.4 million in 2014Q2 (a 60% drop). Short-term investments dropped from $658 million to $176.9 million in the same period (a 73% drop). Meanwhile, accounts receivable, prepaid expenses, and deferred taxes stayed constant. Overall, Starbucks' most liquid asset base dropped 63% from the previous year!
Second, after removing the $2784 million accrued litigation change (which one can hope is a 1-time occurrence), Starbucks' current liability structure remains much the same as it did in 2013. However, long-term debt rose accordingly from $1299.4 million to $2048.1 million, and long-term investments rose substantially from $58.3 million to $832.7 million. Overall, therefore, Starbucks' long-term asset and liability profile deepened substantially.
Third, Starbucks is carrying substantially more inventory than it did previously. Before 2012, even during the worst days of the 2008 financial crisis, Starbucks consistently held approximately $550 million in inventory. However, after 2012, the company has held nearly twice that amount.
These three observations raise some cautionary flags: Starbucks' short-term liquidity deteriorated substantially as its long-term asset and liability profile deepened. This is borne out by Starbucks' current and quick ratios.
However, one should take the above points with a few grains of salt. First, Starbucks' cash conversion cycle (CCC) is 29.5 days, despite the rapid rise in inventory. CCC measures the number of days it takes for a dollar of inventory payables to become a dollar of recorded sales cash (a company's work-in-process duration). Starbucks, despite the rapid rise in inventory, still runs a lean operation and turns over its complete sales process ~12 times per year. More importantly, management has made good progress over the past few years on reducing days inventory outstanding. While inventories might have risen, this is likely nothing more than support for growing sales and new channel initiatives.
Second, Starbucks has little to no debt risk. It reported net earnings of $3 million in interest expenses, has no short-term debt, and has a net income / debt ratio of 0.224 for the quarter. Starbucks is only ~20% leveraged and has $4957.7 million in retained equity earnings. The point of maintaining liquidity is to manage adverse financing shocks and provide fuel for expansion. While Starbucks is certainly shorter now on cash, that change does not herald investing woe.
Lastly, Starbucks' rapid deterioration in cash holdings makes eminent sense given its $2784 million litigation expense from 2013. The company may simply need some time to regain its lost footing from this charge. Management also weathered the financial crisis in 2008 with much less cash on hand, and this movement might simply be a return to normal business operations.
Strong Sales but Cloudy Forecasts
Investors in the ubiquitous green purveyor of caffeinated beverages should derive some continued satisfaction from Starbucks' strong sales results last quarter, featuring an 11% year over year rise.
Additionally, operating profit margins rose slightly but significantly and maintained a strong long-term trend. Investors can safely ignore the decrease in 2013 due to litigation expenses.
Returns on assets, equity, and capital employed also improved. While these were (again) initially depressed by substantial litigation losses in 2013, which had a significant effect on assets and profits, the improvement since is notably good.
Starbucks made strong use of its resources this quarter as well. Sales per store rose from $194 thousand to $199 thousand, and fixed asset turnover also grew accordingly. Starbucks stores increased from 19,209 locations to 20,863 locations from the previous year, even beyond the increase in sales per store.
All told, this paints an excellent short-term picture of Starbucks' prospects and speaks positively about management's work.
However, there's a strong rebuttal to be heard. Each argument above indicates that Starbucks is using existing assets much more intensively.
First, sales grew 11.2%, but the number of store locations grew only 8.5%. If Starbucks products have such draw to consumers (addiction, if you will), why didn't management capitalize (literally) on that opportunity by building more stores? The answer is likely mere speculation, but a few possibilities include: 1) management could not find talented employees to supervise new stores; 2) management could not identify new locations quickly enough to fulfill demand; 3) there are not enough new opportunities for growth because the market is saturated; 4) management was strapped for cash after the litigation settlement in 2013; 5) all of the above.
Second, while operating profit rose slightly and remained strong overall, much of Starbucks' costs are far beyond management control. Coffee trades globally in an integrated market and prime real estate providers have many options. While we can infer that Starbucks is operated with comparable efficiency as in previous quarters that observation is no reason to believe that management is particularly skilled.
Third, the long-term trend of Starbucks' sales indicates a downward path towards maturity. Once the darling growth story (even once lampooned in The Simpsons), the green mermaid has grown into a 20,000-store behemoth. In a saturated market with large competitors, Starbucks needs to transition into its role as an industry leader. That will include aggressively integrating new product lines, leveraging business partnerships and joint ventures, and squashing potential competition. Whether Starbucks can deliver on these responsibilities remains to be seen.
Joy comes in the morning - Starbucks investors can take some pleasure in yet another quarter of strong sales growth, decent management, and a solid business model. Looking forward, investors should beware the clouds on the horizon.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014080616:45
SYMBOL = CMG
CMG's projections will likely come back to realistic estimations.
The company is now overvalued; based on a earnings growth, dcf, and dfcf evaluation.
Technicals show the stock is highly overbought and poised for selling.
Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (NYSE:CMG) currently develops and operates fast-casual Mexican food restaurants. As of July 21, 2014, there were roughly 1600 restaurants being run. The company was founded in 1993 and is based in Denver, Colorado. Chipotle is a high growth oriented business with a mass population target group that seeks a semi-healthy food place, relative to other fast food restaurants, while sustaining the general 'under 10 minute' food guarantee. Many people enjoy the food here, as it is simple, fresh, and pretty cheap. The company has come a long way with its business model, however, shareholders are now bidding up the stock price more than warranted. While looking to acquire some of this clockwork growth, investors are now paying a hefty premium and risk disproportionate downside risk at current levels.
Right now restaurants have an average 15% growth annualized in earnings for the next 5 years. Despite that CMG is advancing at an accelerated pace, growth will eventually revert to the mean, and therefore, make the current premium payment less attractive. Here are a few important relative metrics:
With another strong quarter under CMG's belt, investors are now experiencing irrational exuberance with the mindset that the company can do no wrong. If the company can outpace analyst projections, then clearly something is going right, so why not buy more? Well that is true to an extent. Markets generally act pretty efficiently and bolstered sentiment should add to the momentum. Of course, until it stops.
1) Earnings growth is expected to trail down slowly going forward due to scaling and entrance into relative market saturation. Even without potential earnings compression, the stock still trades at a 2x premium of 36 times expected earnings versus historical growth at 34%. If we apply a modest reduction in earnings growth at 30%, we could see the stock selling at 35x earnings, or a 13% downside.
2) Discounted cash flow method using next year's $17.28 EPS with in-line expectations of 24%, with moderate trailing growth, show that the stock is only worth $630.52 pps. Another aggressive dcf method assuming this growth is maintained for the next 8 years, would give us a fair value of $624.52 pps.
3) If we use a standard discounted free cash flow model, the stock would look very expensive at current levels. So considering the company is using a lot of its operation cash to finance new store growth, I decided to remove capex from the equation. Here are the following inputs: $621.46mm, cagr of 31%; 19.265b mrkt cap. This would issue a fair value of $620, given growth remained unchanged. If we taper this expectation, the equity value drops substantially, closer to the high 500s.
Shareholders seem to be avoiding the tech case here. While the trend appears to be very bullish, we also have to check out the leading indicators for price action. Right here, it looks like something is setting up. However the earnings report will likely mitigate any intensive selling.
Right now the stock price is running into resistance at $683 per share. Stochastics RSI was extremely overbought and is starting to break back down into neutral territory, not yet confirming bearish momentum. The MACD also appears that it is setting up for its confirmation break to the downside (when the macd crosses the EMA).
Risks to this avoid recommendation are outperformance in operations, favorable inflation trends, and continuing positive surprises on quarterly reports.
Institutions still hold about ~92% of the company. Investment banks also maintain strong buy recommendations with price targets north of $690 up to $750 a share.
I am not recommending investors go short, as this is clearly a strong growth stock that institutions are clearly willing to bid higher. Margin of safety has significantly diminished in my opinion, however, and valuations tend to point south, with the most generous assuming 6% minimum downside risk. I think people should be more hands off at this point, given that the stock is priced with pretty high expectations. I would advise against buying, and rather holding or taking some off the table.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014080617:44
SYMBOL = HAL
Oilfield services companies have continued their excellent run from last year.
North America has been a worry, especially for Halliburton as it is the most exposed.
Q2 results showed that North America is showing signs of recovery.
Given Halliburton’s exposure to North America and the ongoing recovery, the company is the best among the top three oilfield services providers.
2014 has turned out to be another excellent year for oilfield services companies. Year-to-date, shares of the three major oilfield services companies, Halliburton Company (NYSE:HAL), Schlumberger Limited (NYSE:SLB) and Baker Hughes Incorporated (NYSE:BHI) have posted significant gains. This was after all three stocks outperformed the S&P 500 in 2013. The gains have come as oilfield services companies continue to post strong operating and financial results. The strong performance has been driven this year by growth in the Middle East and Asia. Up until recently though, weakness in North America was a major concern for oilfield services companies. However, the North American market seems to be finally recovering. This is especially good news for Halliburton, which is the most exposed among the three top oilfield services firms to the North American market. In fact, this makes Halliburton the best bet among the three major U.S. oilfield services companies.
Shares continue to surge
In 2013, shares of Halliburton, Schlumberger and Baker Hughes outperformed the S&P 500, gaining 49.21%, 32.59% and 38.39%, respectively. All three stocks have continued to surge this year as well. As of August 4, Halliburton shares have gained more than 39%, Schlumberger shares have gained nearly 23%, and Baker Hughes shares have gained more than 26%. This compares to a gain of just over 5% for the S&P 500.
The rally in shares of oilfield services companies was driven by strong operating and financial performance, which in turn was boosted by higher capital spending from major oil and gas companies in the U.S. and Europe. While oil and gas majors have been reducing capex this year, this has so far not had a negative impact on oilfield services companies. This is because all three major U.S. oilfield services companies have been benefiting from growth in the Middle East and Asia as evidenced by the results in the first half of 2014.
The first quarter of this year saw Halliburton, Schlumberger and Baker Hughes register strong performance in Middle East and Asia. The trend continued in the second quarter as well. Halliburton's revenue from Middle East and Asia rose 11% on a sequential basis. The company's operating income from the region rose 25% on a sequential basis. Baker Hughes's second-quarter revenue from Middle East and Asia was $1.15 billion, compared to $971 million reported for the same period in the previous year. Schlumberger's revenue from Middle East and Asia rose 12% on a year-over-year basis, while the company's margins improved by 323 basis points.
While Middle East and Asia is expected to be a key growth driver going forward as well, up until recently, North America had been a worry. However, North America is finally showing signs of recovery.
North American recovery
Oilfield services firms witnessed weakness in the North American market for two years due to a decline in drilling activity as gas prices weakened. A decline in drilling activity led to an oversupply of equipment, pushing prices lower and hurting margins of oilfield services companies. But after two years, the North American market is getting back on track.
Dave Lesar, CEO of Halliburton, had said in a conference call following the first-quarter results that he was beginning to feel the turn in North America. Following the second-quarter results, Lesar believes that this feeling was dead on target. In the second quarter, Halliburton saw its North American revenue increase 11% on a sequential basis. The company's operating income from North America rose 31% on a sequential basis. More importantly, Halliburton expects North America activity levels to continue to improve, with margins likely to reach 20% in the third quarter. The company is even accelerating additions to its hydraulic fracturing fleet and logistics capabilities in the wake of a recovery.
While Baker Hughes believes that there is still 20% overcapacity in North American markets, the company is seeing increased activity in onshore rigs, wells and horizontal drilling.
Bullish on Halliburton
While the recovery in the North American market has further improved the outlook for all three U.S. oilfield services firms, I am particularly bullish on Halliburton, given that the company is the most exposed to North America.
In the second quarter of 2014, North America accounted for more than 50% of Halliburton's total revenue. On the other hand, Schlumberger generated a third of its revenue from North America. While Baker Hughes depends a little more on North America than Schlumberger, the region accounted for less than 50% of its total revenue in the first half of 2014.
Given this scenario, Halliburton looks like the best bet among the three oilfield services providers although the outlook for the sector overall is bullish.
The major risk faced by Halliburton and the other two companies right now is Russia. Following the tragic MH 17 plane crash in Ukraine, the U.S. and Europe have stepped up pressure on Russia. The U.S. and Europe have also imposed tough sanctions on Russia, which could have some impact on companies in the oil and gas sector. Halliburton noted in its conference call that the Russia sanctions have not had any material impact on its activity levels so far, however, there is some risk related to certain projects that are being tendered later this year.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014080617:51
SYMBOL = ALSK
ALSK has 20% market share in a $1B industry growing at 5% annually.
ALSK has one-third Interest in a Joint Venture that owns 46% of all cell sites in Alaska.
80% discount to earnings power offsets risks associated with debt.
Alaska Communications Systems Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: ALSK) - a local Alaskan Telecom company providing "leading integrated communications services to consumer and business customers in and out of Alaska"- recently caught my eye because it was priced at 0.65 times earnings and 70 percent of book value. Upon further investigation, I discovered these numbers were the result of one-time expense deductions as the result of ALSK's divestiture of its wireless assets to form a joint venture Alaska Wireless Networks (AWN) with its main competitor GCI Communications. (NASDAQ: GNCMA).
It is my intent to provide the reader a clearer picture of both the financial position of ALSK and the Alaskan Telecom Market to reveal the intrinsic value of this local Alaskan telecom company. It should be noted that I make every attempt to be as accurate as possible in my analysis but the reader should realize that my projections are estimates and may be subject to error.
Why is the Market Pessimistic about Alaska Communications?
Shares of ALSK have declined nearly 80% over the last three years primarily for three reasons:
ALSK's management has estimated the Alaska telecom market to be a $1 billion industry growing at five percent annually. (Alaska Communications Systems Group, Inc., 2014) As of this writing, AT&T Alascom was estimated to have 50 percent market share, GCI 30 percent, and ALSK 20 percent. (Alaska Communications Systems Group, Inc., 2013) Verizon has recently turned on its 4G LTE network and has invested $110 million in its Alaska operations.
My belief is that the Alaskan telecom market displays characteristics of an oligopoly because it has four major players and there is substantial startup costs associated with building a network - which limits competition. Oligopolies consist of high barriers to entry with a few firms that can raise prices, limit competition and maximize long run profits while stabilizing revenues and cash flows. To illustrate, since 2004 ALSK has averaged about $351 million in revenue and $19.7 million of free cash flow per year. (Morningstar, Inc., 2014) The synergies that will result from the Alaska Wireless Network transaction will serve to only strengthen these already dependable cash flow streams. The Alaska Wireless Network between ALSK and GCI will have close to 300 cell sites of the approximately 647 in all of Alaska or about 46 percent of all cell sites in The Last Frontier. (Statewide Broadband Task Force, 2013) The AWN network is expected to cover 95 percent of Alaska. AT&T (NYSE:T) owns 187 cell tower sites covering about 90 percent of the state. (Richardson, 2012) For some perspective, Verizon had built nine cell sites as of July 2013 with plans to build 25 in the state and its 4G LTE network reaches 65 percent of Alaska. (Alaska Business Monthly, 2013) The takeaway here is that the market has become overly pessimistic of ALSK due to Verizon's entry without fully analyzing the facts. ALSK is now one-third owner of the most extensive wireless network in Alaska. Let me rephrase this. The Alaska Wireless Network is slated to have 12 cell sites for every one that Verizon has with a 30 percent greater reach than Verizon's 4G LTE network. It would make more sense for Verizon to buy ALSK if it wanted to further its presence in Alaska.
Valuing ALSK's Earnings Power and Assets
Bruce Greenwald's earnings power value and reproduction cost formula provides valuable insight as to the earnings power of a company and the costs a competitor/buyer would need to pay in order to enter a market. Greenwald has theorized that the reproduction cost of a company is the investment a competitor would need to make in order to enter a marketplace and compete with that company. Earnings power value is the reasonable earnings power that can be expected from a company given its capital allocation and financial position. A company with earnings power in excess of its reproduction costs can be assumed to be operating with a competitive advantage because it is able to consistently earn in excess of a competitor's initial investment. (Greenwald & Kahn, 2001)
AWN Transaction
The Alaska Wireless Network produced net income of $56.34 million, had $19.72 million of depreciation expense, and $18.53 million of capital expenditures in the second half of 2013. (Alaska Communications Systems Group, Inc., 2013) Doubling these numbers gives an investor a good idea of AWN's annual projections. If we take a rough estimate and assume that AWN will annually generate roughly $100 million of net income and $40 million of both depreciation and capital expenditures, we are left with free cash flow or owner's earnings of $100 million. ($100 million net income + $40 million of depreciation - $40 million of capex) It should be noted that GCI management estimated $120 million in EBITDA and $40 million in capital expenditures for AWN's first year of operations. (GCI & Alaska Communications Form the Alaska Wireless Network, LLC., 2012) ALSK will receive a $50 million preferred distribution from AWN for the first four years plus 33 percent of the residual. Put simply, ALSK should receive about $60 million ($50 million preferred distribution + $10 million equity interest) from AWN for four years and then 33 percent thereafter. I include this $60 million figure when calculating the earnings power of ALSK.
Reproduction Value
Let's start with ALSK's investment in AWN, which is worth $267 million. (Alaska Communications Systems Group, Inc., 2013) I'm going to assume that it would take three years of selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for a competitor to establish its customer base and other business operations. ALSK had SG&A average expenditures of 28% of sales for the last five years, which equates to $98.2 million. I adjusted the selling expense figure down to 10 percent of average revenues to account for the transfer of its wireless business to AWN. That leaves us with about $31 million in SG&A expenses for 2014. Three years of selling expenses equates to $93 million. ($31 million x 3) A competitor would need to pay about $91 million to its account reps, executives and in all other expenses directly related to running day-to-day operations. Add to this $120 million of capital expenditures that a competitor would need to invest getting its broadband operations up and running. (ALSK's 2014 capex guidance of $40 million x 3) Remember, Verizon has spent $110 million so far in its Alaska operations. I believe it is therefore reasonable to assume that a competitor would value ALSK at $480 million ($267 million AWN investment + $93 million in SG&A expenses + $120 million in capex) which equates to $9.81 per share of reproduction costs.
Earnings Power Value
ALSK's management has projected $310 million of revenue for 2014. Multiplying 2014 revenue by the last five years average operating margins of 14.68 percent (excluding 2013 margins due to one-time expense deduction associated with AWN transaction) equates to normalized operating income of about $45.9 million. Deducting projected interest expense of $33.74 million (ALSK 2014 first quarter interest x 4) leaves us with income before taxes of $11.75 million. If we then subtract average taxes of 29.41 percent from $11.75 million, we are left with net income of $8.3 million. Add back 2014 depreciation projection (ALSK 2014 first quarter depreciation x 4) of $35.16 million and AWN earnings of $60 million (see AWN Transaction section) to get normalized earnings or operating cash flow of $103.46 million. Subtracting 2014 capital expenditure projections of $40 million leaves us with owner's earnings (or Free Cash Flow) of about $63.46 million. We then divide the owner's earnings by the weighted average cost of capital of 6.7% to get $958.70 million for earnings power value of the business operations. Adding back cash in excess of one percent of sales (cash not required for operations) leaves us with a company earnings power value of $987.52 million. We then must subtract total debt outstanding of $438 million to arrive at the earnings power value of the equity, which is about $549.52 million. Divide this number by the shares outstanding and we find that ALSK has an earnings power value per share of $11.23.
Discounted Cash Flow
Discounting owner's earnings of $63.46 million over the next five years assuming a five percent owner's earnings, three percent terminal growth rate, 6.7 percent weighted average cost of capital, and 12.89 percent capitalization rate (owner's earnings/enterprise value) equates to an intrinsic value of $14.48 per share. Is it any coincidence that ALSK's stock price hovered near or exceeded the $14 mark on many occasions over the last 15 years? I think not. And this was at a time when ALSK was competing with GCI for the highly competitive, capital intensive wireless business. With the newly formed AWN structure, ALSK has strengthened its balance sheet, can focus on growing the more lucrative business broadband segment (ALSK grew business broadband revenues 15.29 percent from 2012 to 2013) while receiving passive wireless income from its investment in AWN.
What About the Debt?
The biggest hurdle facing ALSK is its task of reducing its debt load to decrease the chance of defaulting on its debt. While ALSK's debt ratio of about five to one is higher than the industry average, management has taken swift, decisive actions to pay down its debt since closing the AWN deal. ALSK used the approximately $100 million it received from the AWN transaction to pay down its senior debt obligations and decreased its debt $105.6 million or almost 20 percent in 2013. My belief is that the company must issue new debt in order to retire its senior obligations of about $319 million due in 2016. Current debt covenants prohibit ALSK from issuing new debt or paying dividends until the company is at or below 3.5 times adjusted EBITDA. As of Mar. 31, 2014 ALSK's total debt to adjusted EBITDA was 4.25. ALSK's adjusted EBITDA was $106.5M at the end of 2013. (Alaska Communications Systems Group, Inc., 2013) In order to avoid selling off its assets to retire its senior credit obligation, ALSK needs to reduce its debt to a level at or below $372.75 million by 2016. ($106.5x3.5). As of March 31, 2014, ALSK had $438 million of total debt. So if over the next two years ALSK uses all of its preferential distributions (not including its equity interest) from the AWN transaction of $100 million to pay down debt. It would have $338 million of outstanding debt - well below the required terms of the debt covenant.
Up to this point, management has strived to deliver shareholder value through debt reduction and has stayed true to its commitment. Given management's commitment to de-levering, backed by last year's 20 percent debt reduction, there is no legitimate reason to believe ALSK will not be able meet its debt obligation before 2016.
Does a Margin of Safety Exist?
With an Aug. 5 closing price of $1.76, I believe the real price to earnings ratio of ALSK is about 1.36 and its price to reproduction cost is 0.19. This gives ALSK investors an earnings yield of over 70% with an 80% discount to reproduction cost.
While the upside is great, ALSK does not come without risks. There is a possibility that ALSK could miss an interest payment, be forced to sell off its assets to meet its obligations, or be unable to issue new debt in order to retire its senior credit facility due in 2016. With this in mind, ALSK's intrinsic value is at least $9.81 per share or about $480 million, a price in which a potential buyer and/or larger competitor would need to pay in order to enter the Alaskan telecom market. The current market price of $1.76 represents a more than 80 percent discount to intrinsic value of both earnings power value, DCF, and reproduction cost. I believe ALSK's large discount to intrinsic value more than compensates investors for the risks associated with ALSK's debt and competitive environment. This situation is a classic example of market inefficiency and if "Mr. Market" does not acknowledge ALSK's economic value in the short run, I plan to keep on buying from him until he does.
Is ALSK truly a hidden gem? I believe it is.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014080618:24
SYMBOL = DSNY
With the introduction of the security pack, Destiny's streaming media solution is finally ready for launch in the first out of two dozen verticals.
Other problems, like a work around of ISP throttling, are in the works, as well as customization for other market verticals.
All this has taken significantly longer than many people hoped and/or expected, and the stock has been sold off way too much, helped by incorrect info which needs correcting.
Destiny Media (OTCQX:DSNY) is a small media solution company which we have featured before so here just a quick re-introduction. The company offers two products, PlayMPE and Clipstream. The first offers music labels a way to securely send their pre-release media files (music, clips) to clients, roughly a $40M market.
PlayMPE is the de-facto standard, having all three big music studios and a thousand independent labels as long-term clients.
Their second product, Clipstream, offers a solution for streaming media, a much larger (and fast growing) market. The product has a number of inherent advantages (see below), but what was lacking so far were similar security (or DRM Digital Rights Management) features which have made PlayMPE the leading product.
This is just one reason why we have claimed that Clipstream hasn't really launched, but as we also argued, step by step, the remaining problems (like working around ISP throttling) and the needed customization of the product to the specific needs of up to two dozen verticals (customer groups) will get done, and then we'll have a real test whether there is demand for Clipstream. We think there will be, as the advantages are simply too compelling.
Clipstream DRM
So it's encouraging to see that the company provided shareholders with an update announcing that the security features for Clipstream are finally ready. What are these security features? Well, below we discuss the security features of their other product, PlayMPE, and they are comparable, but Clipstream has a few additional features. From the update:
Clipstream provides content producers the extra assurance that their content is not easily scraped. Clipstream's new enhanced security provides resistance to copying and pasting, printing and blacklists programs that are able to access video or images while the video is playing. Optional dynamic watermarking also can identify viewers. This is combined with the Clipstream core engine's built-in resistance to re-hosting, making Clipstream the most robust secure streaming video solution.
It has immediate relevance because nearly all of Clipstream's revenues come from the market research vertical, a $39B market. So now a crucial barrier for increased Clipstream sales in this (but also other) big vertical has been removed, this is good news. Sales could ramp up pretty quickly, as Clipstream has two crucial advantages that no other product combines:
Reach, it plays nearly everywhere, in every HTML5 equipped browser (it costs market research companies money if a respondent cannot see the video, so this is pretty important to them).
Top security features.
You wouldn't realize any of this by reading yet another critical article by Keubiko. He already declared Clipstream a failure before it has properly launched, and he isn't changing track now that the company is addressing the technical problems and customization required for the different verticals, quite the contrary.
While Keubiko rubbishes the importance of this market vertical by pointing out the limited sales ($28K), this is a rather one-sided picture because:
The market itself is large (something he doesn't dispute).
Destiny already has many big market research companies as clients (see here).
He fails to recognize that including these top security features is a must for this vertical and several others.
So yes, present sales are small, but the market is large and Destiny now has a good shot at that because the included DRM features are crucial and Destiny already has many market research companies as clients. Rather than see the opportunity, Keubiko focuses on some semantic trickery.
Plugin
One of the advantages of Clipstream is that users don't need media players nor browser plug-ins. It simply plays in any HTML5 equipped browser. This advantage is rubbished by Keubiko because, well:
The Security Pack IS a plug-in! So one of the major benefits touted by DSNY, that Clipstream doesn't need a plug-in, actually needs a plug-in for the security features. Putting in a quote from a customer talking about not needing a plug-in strikes me as pretty odd.
There are two rather essential differences in play here which makes his criticism rather moot, almost a wordplay:
The meaning of the word 'customer.' When Destiny touts the advantages of Clipstream not needing a plugin (or a media player), it is talking about people actually watching video streams online, not the customers of Destiny Media, the ones buying Clipstream, like market research companies.
The DRM plug-in adds essential functionality which the customers themselves requested. It's rather stunning that Keubiko manages to turn even this positive into a negative, but whether the general reader should do the same, we don't think so.
It might be pretty odd for Keubiko, but there is a simple difference between adding a one-off new functionality for existing customers in a specific market vertical where that is a crucial feature, and a general reliance on plug-ins enabling the product to work at all for the masses (the customer's customers, so to speak) watching video streams online.
It's important to stress that viewers aren't affected at all by this plugin, they don't need to worry about any plugin whatsoever or install anything. Clipstream viewers still don't need a media player or an up-to-date browser plugin to view video streams in Clipstream format.
One might also take note of the fact that even without the security plug-in, Clipstream still works and is used in the market research segment. The plug-in simply adds new functionality which the clients themselves requested as security is crucial here (unlike, for instance the ad market, where advertisers actually hope ads will get copied and go 'viral').
Instead of derision and false equivalents, this is a very positive development, as it enables Clipstream to grow a lot in this substantial market vertical (and in others where top DRM features are a crucial selling point).
EMI, Warner and Sony actually worked with Destiny on designing and testing PlayMPE, in essence it's build to order and deeply integrated into their value chain.
One cannot have it both ways, apart from the fact that PlayMPE isn't such a run of the mill product besieged by competitors when it has the biggest companies as long-standing clients which helped design the product, how "vulnerable" is PlayMPE really?
Keubiko's argument rests on the fact that the contract with Universal is up for renewal and that there are competing products. This isn't terribly convincing:
Universal renewed its contract (or contracts, as it happens) into a single world-wide contract only a year ago
The companies have a long-standing relationship
Universal actually made the contract conditional upon certain improvements in PlayMPE, working with Destiny
Keubiko completely ignores why the big three studios actually chose PlayMPE
There is something like switching cost and these have only become larger with the rationalization of a host of local contracts into one world-wide single contract.
Standards and network effects
Basically, PlayMPE has become the world-wide standard. Keubiko might have missed it, but here is the description right from the Seeking Alpha DSNY page:
Universal, EMI, Warner, Sony and one thousand other labels use Destiny's secure distribution service to deliver most of their pre-release music to radio, online retail, DJs, sports stadiums, journalists and VIP. Destiny's instant play streaming includes internet radio, internet TV, online surveys and new cloud and mobile offerings. Patents include watermarking, peer to peer locking and pending cross platform streaming video for mobile.
Not only the big three, but a thousand other labels and a network of 100,000 users. Switching to another standard brings costs. PlayMPE comes with real-time reporting features, which are essential early indications of success or failure of music and clips.
Switching to another standard would create a disruption in real-time reporting provided that a new standard can match these reporting (and lossless quality and security) features. Switching also involves changing systems and, for employees, learning a new system.
What's more, PlayMPE isn't just for internal use at Universal (or the other music studios), they use it to send their crown-jewels (pre-release music and clips) to clients like radio stations. There are some mild network effects at work here.
PlayMPE is integrated into Clear Channel, Shazam, BBC, Sirius XM, Mediabase, etc., and is compatible with all of the scheduling and reporting systems and there is a network of 100,000 users around the world.
As you might realize, the value of a network has a habit of increasing (steeply, according to Metcalf's law) with the number of users. By signing a world-wide contract with Destiny, Universal is banking on PlayMPE as the standard, enjoying network effects.
For instance, reporting becomes comparable, and stats on early music use can be combined. Destiny itself explained this in an earlier CC:
We are in a position to generate the most accurate real time charts in the industry. We're building the most accurate data base meditated data from music all over the world... our growing network is creating derivative business opportunities and captive audio so we could sell our Clipstream offering into.
The world is simply less complex with everybody using the same standard, and PlayMPE is the de-facto standard.
Core capabilities
Besides network effects and the advantage of a single standard, there are other key advantages upon which the studios chose PlayMPE and they have everything to do with why PlayMPE became the de-facto standard:
It's a lossless codec, the quality of the music is way above MP3
It has patented DRM features.
It's essentially been built to order for the big studios
The latter is what probably made the studios choose PlayMPE in the first place. While sending pre-release music through the internet is much cheaper, it's also much riskier, especially for pre-release music of which the studios have invested, but not yet reaped any revenues. You don't want that to fall into the wrong hands.
You wouldn't realize from any of Keubiko's articles on Destiny, but PlayMPE has certain patented killer DRM (digital rights management) features:
An undetectable watermark in the media file without losing quality, even when the file is compressed or conversed into another format.
Tracking the MPE file so that any infringes can be tracked back to the violating (and receiving) party. It provides even information about the date and time of the transaction, operating system, IP address and even the date and time of the illegal transaction are available to the original owner of the content using this technology.
Locking the media file to a single device, preventing it to play on unauthorized machines and devices.
This isn't just garden variety technology:
One of the more important claims in this patent is the ability to uniquely recognize a particular computer. Uniquely identifying a person's computer is a common issue which is usually approached by saving cookies or beacons to the user's computer or by tracking IP addresses. These are not reliable solutions as cookies are easily deleted and IP addresses easily changed. Destiny's propriety hash code process creates a serial number that can be used to recognize the user on subsequent visits without ever saving anything to that user's computer. [10-K filing]
Destiny's watermark technology is patented and integrated with the IFPI, the global anti piracy police. It's the only watermark that survives compression, analog duplication, conversion, filtering, etc., and still be inaudible. Pirates have been stopped in the middle of downloads with the police visiting them the next day, per the company.
The watermark identifies the violator by name with details of time, IP address, etc., so the person can be arrested. Every stream and every download is individually watermarked. Other systems have either no watermark or a useless generic one saying "Copyright UMG."
The support on offer is also top notch. Destiny has six server facilities in Europe, North America and Australia with global 24/7 telephone support. The servers operate on code that automatically mirrors and load balances content in real time globally, while creating automated streaming alerts and other marketing materials such as automated plaympe.com integration into real-time charts and social media feeds.
The system is a permission based encoding system where the labels can set up administrators and assign different staff to work on different aspects of a release (the music, the video, the recipient list, the promo material, etc.) and it doesn't go out without automated approval from various authorities (their CFO, for instance).
Content can be reused and relocalized so the same song can come out in different countries in different languages. Destiny has 27 language version of their various player software.
Compare that with other sites who give you a user name and a password and you can download MP3 format. There is simply nothing like Destiny's PlayMPE and this is not surprising as the studios had a big input in designing the system.
While Keubiko focuses on contract renewal and cheaper alternatives, the fact is that the big studios have chosen PlayMPE, and for reasons you would never find out reading any of his articles.
PlayMPE "pricing pressure"
We're not entirely sure on what Keubiko based that statement on (see quote above), to be honest, but we assume it's on the effects of last year's contract renewal with Universal. Apparently, the author is not aware that this was a rationalization of a host of local contracts into a single world-wide contract, the end result of close cooperation between Destiny and Universal.
The contract is beneficial for both parties, which have a long-standing relationship (something you wouldn't notice from Keubiko's articles). Universal benefits as the contract replaces a host of local contracts, cutting unnecessary complexity, and it made specific requirements for improvements in PlayMPE.
Destiny benefits by riding Universal's (and the other studios') coattails. They take it to new markets (so much for not having growth opportunities), and because of the fact that the studios use the product, independents and clients (radio stations, journalists, etc.) are likely to follow, creating network economies.
And the expansion basically cost Destiny little, PlayMPE is fully automatic. Above the threshold in the Universal contract (which they have reached), nearly all revenue is profit. So much for that pricing pressure...
Cheaper alternatives
Keubiko argues that cheaper alternatives exist and they do. The one that Keubiko touts is Haulix, which has been around since 2009.
But is Keubiko actually aware of the difference between music promotion software and music distribution?
We'll give a clue. The first are actually not competitors of PlayMPE, but are actually often using it.
None of the competitors give the advantages of PlayMPE:
Quality
Security
Reporting
Service
Network of users
Deep customization and integration with the studios
One might notice that cheaper alternatives have always existed, this isn't something recent. But these advantages are good reasons why the studios have chosen PlayMPE.
From the description we've given above of these advantages, one might appreciate that PlayMPE operates on a different level, deeply integrated into the studio's value chains and networks (like radio stations, does any alternative have the same reach?) which makes PlayMPE rather difficult to compete against, let alone unseat.
Examples of peculiar arguments from Keubiko abound, due to the length of the article already we will just provide a couple more.
Battery drain
We already strongly disagreed with Keubiko's claim that Clipstream's "battery drain" is a serious problem. When confronted with some of these arguments, he either simply repeats these claims or tries to blind the reader with science. You might want to read his lengthy comment where he argues we're out of our depths and then quotes Steve Jobs on the battery drain of Flash.
He argues that Clipstream is similar, which indeed it is, to a certain degree. However, in one respect it isn't. Clipstream only taxes the CPU when one clicks on play whilst Flash runs continuously. So on the crucial issue of battery drain, it isn't similar at all.
He touts the advantage of hardware decoding. Indeed, there is an ever so minor difference, but this comes at the cost of two big disadvantages:
The chips he's talking about are H.264, these are mostly in desktops, rarely in laptops, which would make battery drain no problem (that is no worse than viewing YouTube) just where it matters.
Chips can't be upgraded, so when H.264 shifts into H.265, you're stuck with your H.264 chip and can't use it for H.265 video's (or any other format).
If you still don't believe us that battery drain is not a serious issue, we propose, like we have done, to run Clipstream streams from the DSNY website and compare the effects on battery life with running YouTube videos. Do you notice the difference? We didn't either, and we did it with a 35W laptop GPU and running streams continuously.
Standards
Clipstream is a poor solution to a problem that doesn't exist. Every major industry player is behind standard video formats. Every one. [Keubiko, comment]
Every major industry player might be behind a standard, but not the same standard! We have Flash, Windows Media Player, Real, WebM, Quicktime, H.264, H.265, VP9, Daala, Ogg Theora, etc.
Cost advantage
The reader, as a viewer, might argue that he is still able to watch video streams. Yes, but behind the scenes, companies offering those video streams have to incur the costs of transcoding, run the different versions each on their own streaming server, and use content delivery networks.
These are all costs that Clipstream eliminates, as it plays in every HTML5 enabled browser (only the old IE8 isn't HTML5 enabled but this is a dwindling problem), it doesn't need a single, let alone multiple streaming servers (a single webserver will do) and because Clipstream is treated as normal web traffic it's cached at the local ISP ready for re-use, eliminating the need for content delivery networks.
Transcoding cost isn't an issue
This really is a rather bizarre argument:
Transcoding is a red herring thanks to Moore's Law. Ditto for CDNs (content delivery networks)
Well, tell that to the companies who have to fork out these transcoding costs. Keubiko is entitled to his opinion, but you might want to see this video of an industry expert who calls transcoding the biggest problem, with hundreds of formats. Here from the summary of a market report on the transcoding market:
Although business models remain uncertain and appetite for new investment in major markets remains low, continued digitization of workflows and skyrocketing demand for over the top content (both on-demand and live), continuing to drive double-digit growth for the market.
The cost of transcoding can run up pretty quickly and it's a billion+ dollar industry
Content delivery networks aren't necessary
You might have noticed in the previous issue (transcoding) that Keubiko also argues that content delivery networks will be usurped by Moore's law. Well, tell that to the dozens of companies that inhabit this space, this is a multi-billion dollar industry, and still growing.
We also wonder why, if transcoding and CDNs are a red herring due to Moore's Law, as Keubiko has it, he isn't making the same argument for CPU usage, which he sees as a big problem. Or, the existence of the non-HTML5 compliant IE8 browser (based on inflated figures).
Turns out he has it exactly backwards, the problems he sweeps away are serious, while the ones he highlights are near irrelevant.
Valuing companies
Applying Keubiko's logic, companies should be based on past sales entirely, which is why his articles on Destiny are full of valuation exercises based on these and he constantly stresses that both PlayMPE and Clipstream have stagnant and no sales.
Armed with such a backward looking perspective, one could, or perhaps even should sell or short every development stage company, or even any situation in which the market capitalization isn't supported by present sales.
There are a host of biotech companies out there without any sales but with market caps well in excess of Destiny's. We just happen to come across POET Technologies, no sales whatsoever and a $250M market cap, over 6x Destiny's.
And, as this article and the previous one might have made it clear, valuating a company should also assess its opportunities and its core capabilities.
We can sort of understand that the market has lost faith at the moment. It has taken time for PlayMPE to reach the threshold and Clipstream's development has taken considerably longer, and particular one-sided articles blowing every threat out of proportion and ignoring all advantages of the technologies.
But here are some further facts to ponder. The CEO has bought shares well in excess of his yearly income and the company hasn't increased the number of outstanding shares in years. It's debt free and cash flow positive.
While the market price at present reflect negative investor sentiment, reality is that PlayMPE has crossed the threshold in the contract beyond which additional revenues are almost entirely profits and the technical and customization issues with Clipstream are being solved as we speak and the company is now just worth $35M.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014080618:48
SYMBOL = AIG
AIG has presented a quality quarter with higher earnings and better combined ratios.
Its book value has grown by double-digits year-over-year indicating more growth potential in a cyclical upswing in the insurance industry in the years ahead.
AIG is a 'get it and forget it' story.
Buy AIG now at a 30% discount to book value and sell when investors love AIG once again, possibly at a sizable premium to book value.
American International Group (NYSE:AIG) presented top second quarter results on Monday, which highlighted continued progress at the insurance company. Though AIG's stock price has been trading weakly in the last week as a result of a broader market sell-off, the insurance company is a top bet on a booming insurance business and a sizable increase in its market valuation in the years ahead.
Not too long ago, I have restructured my American International Group Long position and swapped the common stock for the long-term warrants (expiry date 2021). Reason for this is, that I think the insurance industry (both Property & Casualty and Life businesses) has massive upside potential in an environment of rising interest rates and a solidly growing U.S. economy. I particularly expect strong tailwinds for AIG's commercial insurance product lines in a cyclical upswing. Add to that, American International Group has positioned itself as a top notch capital allocator, which shells out substantial amounts of cash for shareholder remuneration.
Its second quarter 2014 results have highlighted, that the company is clearly on the right track in creating value for shareholders. All these aspects should make a compelling case for a narrowing book value discount going forward. In fact, I expect American International Group to trade at a premium to book value in a couple of years driven by continued earnings growth, operational improvements, share buybacks and multiple expansion.
Second quarter take-aways
American International Groups' second quarter results were more than solid. Diluted earnings per share rose 14% to $2.10 in the most recent quarter compared against last year's $1.84. More importantly, American International Group reported an after-tax return on equity of 7.7% underscoring that the company has indeed returned to respectable profitability.
American International Group also closed the sale of ILFC to AerCap (NYSE:AER) and repurchased $1.1 billion of its own shares during the most recent quarter. The sale of AIG's aircraft leasing unit and the related cash windfall certainly can be regarded as a coup.
One of most praiseworthy accomplishments on the operating side of the business, however, was AIG's improvement in the combined ratio in its Property & Casualty business.
Combined ratios reflect how profitable a Property & Casualty business really is and whether an insurance company turns a profit on its policy writing.
AIG's global combined ratio improved to 98.8 in the second quarter of 2014 vs. 102.6 in last year's quarter. A combined ratio below 100 indicates an underwriting profit and disciplined insurance pricing. For the most recent quarter, AIG reported an underwriting profit of $101 million vs. a loss of $223 million last year. The turnaround in underwriting income is also the reason why AIG reported a 25% higher pre-tax operating income in its Property & Casualty division in the most recent quarter. Its P&C performance can largely be credited for AIG's year-over-year increases in company profitability.
Book value
American International Group's book value rose by double-digits year-over-year. While this is certainly compelling, it gives investors a taste of what is possible in terms of book value growth if the economy provides tailwinds in an economic upswing.
AIG's second quarter book value including AOCI stood at $75.71 per share compared against $66.02 per share in the year ago quarter (a whopping 15%). AIG's discount to book value now stands at about 31% depicting a significant margin of safety.
It is also this margin of safety that makes American International Group a 'get it and forget it' story. AIG is a great bet on ongoing book value growth and investors should see a more realistic market valuation going forward. Patient investors certainly are facing a very attractive risk/reward ratio at this point.
Chart situation
AIG's stock has done 'ok' in 2014 even though the recent market consolidation affected the insurance company as well: The stock is up 3% since the beginning of the year and approximately 9% over the course of the last twelve months.
Though I find the pace of recovery in the stock price of AIG a bit disappointing, it has taught me a lot about patience as a critical quality serious investors need to have. Five years from now, AIG will likely look fundamentally different than now or, better yet, will be perceived differently by investors.
Let's not kid ourselves: AIG is not a favorite investment in the investor community, which I consider to be a good thing. As long AIG is not popular, investors will be able to snatch up the insurance company at such a massive discount to book value.
Conclusion
Benmosche has done a great job at American International Group and his visionary, forward thinking can clearly be credited with the successful turnaround of the company. While I believe the restructuring has been completed, it is now time to focus on the continued improvement of insurance metrics such as the combined ratio and press ahead for accretive capital deployment aka share repurchases.
With strong business results and cyclical, economic tailwinds ahead, American International Group should be able to trade at a premium to book value in the coming years and attract a significantly larger group of retail investors. It is at this time, that investors should think about selling their AIG holdings. Until then: Strong Buy.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014080622:50
SYMBOL = OXLC
This is the third entry in a series on high-yielding positions from my income portfolio.
The article discusses Oxford Lane Capital Corp., a closed-end fund that invests in CLOs.
The fund has a strong history of outperforming its peers and is currently yielding 14.7%.
To recap: I've been reviewing the top-yielding holdings from my income portfolio, which is the primary source of my retirement income. It contains a diverse set of holdings that include several large-cap, blue-chips stocks, municipal bond funds, REITs as both individual holdings and funds, domestic and international income-equity funds, and a range of fixed-income funds that cover various modes of credit and debt investments in domestic and international markets. In the first entry of the series (found here) I discussed Awilco Drilling (OTCPK:AWLCF), a small, North Sea owner of two drilling rigs whose stock pays a dividend of 18.6%. The subject of the second installment was the 2x leveraged ETN covering closed-end funds, ETRACS Monthly 2x Leveraged Closed End Fund ETN (NYSEARCA:CEFL) yielding 16.1% (see it here). I'll close out the series here with an individual closed-end fund, Oxford Lane Capital Corp. (NASDAQ:OXLC).
Oxford Lane Capital Corp is a closed-end fund that cefconnect shoehorns into its senior-loan category. Morningstar considers it in its bank-loan category, and gives it a five-star rating. It holds highly leveraged tranches of collateralized loan obligations (CLOs). My primary resource for understanding OXLC is Steven Bavaria, who has written about the fund extensively. He explains the complex financial mechanisms that drive the fund's yield in a clear and understandable manner. A good place to start for understanding the fund's strategies is this article and this one. The key thing to understand is that Oxford Lane buys CLOs, often at massive discounts, with about a 3% spread under conditions that leverage them up to 8 or 9 times. This provides up to a 30% return and allows a 14%-15% return to shareholders, leaving a substantial return to management.
Some will blanch at the fund's 8.38% management fees and reject it out of hand on that basis. I do not feel that way. The fund is returning nearly 15% net of fees backed by an impressive track record of solid performance. Fees are, of course, an important consideration in selecting a passive index fund, but this is much less true, in my view, for a fund with the level of professional, active management that OXLC's investment strategies require. The fact that the management can make money while paying shareholders as handsomely as they do will get no objection from me.
OXLC is currently trading at a small premium (0.55%). It has traded at a premium as high as 16.25% as recently as a few months ago and rarely drops into discount territory, as this chart shows.
The table below (from Morningstar's analysis of the fund) shows how well OXLC has performed compared to its category.
I don't pretend to fully understand the complexities of the financial instruments that comprise OXLC's portfolio. I've done enough to educate myself -- and I have enough confidence in the analyses of those more knowledgeable than I -- that I am confident OXLC is a solid holding that should continue to produce exceptionally high yields over time. The nature of its portfolio helps to insulate it from broader market moves, and it should be much less sensitive to a rising interest rate environment than most other fixed-income vehicles.
OXLC has not yet announced its next dividend, although past history would indicate an announcement should be forthcoming in the next week or so. Ex-dividend date should be sometime in early to mid-September. The fund's most recent distribution was for $0.60/share. The dividend has increased three times from an initial $0.25/share in 2011. The most recent increase was for 1Q 2014 when the dividend was raised from $0.55/share to its present rate. A $0.10/share special dividend was added to that distribution as well.
I first opened a small position in OXLC in April 2013 and have increased my stake in the fund several times as my understanding of the fund increased and the basis for its excellent yields became more clear to me. It remains a core position in my income portfolio, and is one that I would not hesitate to accumulate on dips as they occur.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014072318:22
SYMBOL = MCD
McDonald's sees revenues and reported EPS increased 1%.
However, same-store sales came in flat, with higher prices offsetting lower guest traffic.
A food scandal in China also is hurting McDonald's and a few of its peers.
I remain long McDonald's, though the company needs to improve its performance.
On July 22, McDonald's (NYSE:MCD) reported its Q2 2014 results. Not too much good can be said about the quarter. The company posted anemic EPS growth of 1% to $1.40. In addition, revenues came up soft, up only 1% to $7.18 billion. Both these numbers missed estimates, sending shares lower about 3% over the past few days. However, as I noted back in March, McDonald's remains committed to returning large amounts of capital to shareholders, targeting $18 billion to $20 billion in dividends and share repurchases through 2016.
McDonald's seems to be struggling most in mature markets, especially in the US and Western Europe. Consumers in these regions have been shifting to healthier options, a long-term trend the company has failed to reverse. However, thanks to large amounts of promotional spending, McDonald's has yet to see a large drop in guest traffic, and remains dominant in certain emerging markets and during breakfast.
Adding to the company's woes is another major food safety scandal in China. According to reports, Chinese regulators have shut a local meat supplier after a TV report showed workers picking up meat from a factory floor and mixing rotten meat with fresh meat. The supplier, Shanghai Husi Food Co, is a unit of US based OSI Group, and was a source of chicken for McDonald's and Yum Brands' (NYSE:YUM) KFC. Both McDonald's and Yum have apologized. However, this scandal may have a longer term impact given that Chinese consumers are already wary, especially after the 2008 milk scandal.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014072319:03
SYMBOL = BMY
The whisper number is $0.47, three cents ahead of the analysts' estimate.
Bristol-Myers has a 48% positive surprise history (having topped the whisper in 14 of the 29 earnings reports for which we have data).
The overall average post earnings price move is "as expected" (beat the whisper number and see strength, miss and see weakness) when the company reports earnings.
Bristol-Myers Squibb (NYSE:BMY) is expected to report earnings on Thursday, July 24th. The whisper number is $0.47, three cents ahead of the analysts' estimate and showing some confidence from investors. Bristol-Myers has a 48% positive surprise history (having topped the whisper in 14 of the 29 earnings reports for which we have data).
Our primary focus is on post earnings price movement. Knowing how likely a stock's price will move following an earnings report can help you determine the best action to take (long or short). In other words, we analyze what happens when the company beats or misses the whisper number expectation.
The table below indicates the average post earnings price movement within a one and thirty trading day timeframe:
The strongest price movement of +3.5% comes within thirty trading days when the company reports earnings that beat the whisper number, and -1.2% within ten trading days when the company reports earnings that miss the whisper number. The overall average price move is "as expected" (beat the whisper number and see strength, miss and see weakness) when the company reports earnings.
The table below indicates the most recent earnings reports and short-term price reaction:
The company has reported earnings ahead of the whisper number in two of the past four quarters with a whisper number. In the comparable quarter last year, the company reported earnings two cents short of the whisper number. Following that report, the stock realized a 1.2% loss in five trading days. Last quarter, the company reported earnings one cent ahead of the whisper number. Following that report, the stock realized a 5.4% gain in ten trading days. Overall historical data indicates the company to be (on average within thirty trading days) an "as expected" price reactor when the company reports earnings.
Enter your expectation and view more earnings information here, or let us know your expectation in the comments section below.
Since 1998, WhisperNumber.com has been tracking and publishing "crowd sourced estimates" for earnings. We call these earnings expectations whisper numbers. Our whisper numbers are gained from individual investors and traders just like you that have registered with our site. While the whisper number itself is an important part of our analysis, a company's "price reaction" to beating or missing the whisper number expectation is the key. On average, companies that exceed the whisper are "rewarded," while companies that miss are "punished" following an earnings report. Trading on whispers is a technical play on market psychology, rather than a bet on a company's fundamental strengths.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014072319:14
SYMBOL = KMP
Almost all the business segments of the partnership are showing solid growth.
The expansion efforts in different business areas will continue to enhance the revenues as well as cash flows of the partnership.
Seasonality in earnings and cash flows explains why the partnership missed on the bottom line estimates.
Kinder Morgan Energy Partners (NYSE:KMP) recently announced its second quarter earnings which received mixed reaction from the market - some analysts were not happy with the results as they believe the partnership's fundamentals are not growing adequately and the future cash distributions might also not be able to grow at the current rate. KMP has been one of the best in the sector when it comes to growing cash distributions - the partnership has been growing its cash distributions at around 5%. There are a few partnerships that can boast such a high growth rate in cash distributions. We do not agree with these analysts and believe that there is no immediate threat to the partnership - in fact, we have explained some growth areas in our previous two articles, which will contribute heavily towards the cash flows growth of the partnership.
A Glance at the Earnings
KMP reported revenues of around $3.57 billion, up 18% and a per unit net income of around $0.43, compared to $1.41 in the same period last year. However, the analysts were expecting revenues of around $3.35 billion with per unit profits equaling $0.58 for the second quarter. This increase in revenues and decrease in net profits, compared to estimated results, is due to the seasonal demand of the partnership's operations. KMP derives a major portion of its earnings from natural gas sales, which tends to rise in the first and fourth quarter of the year, due to which the partnership reported increased revenues in the second quarter. However, the partnership failed to meet the sequential net margin results, which affected the distributable cash flows growth rate in the second quarter, which will be discussed later in this article.
Moreover, KMP managed to generate around $1.44 billion through its five business segments portfolio, an 11% increase over the second quarter of 2013. This substantial rise in the segmented revenues is due to the impressive performance by Tennessee Gas Pipelines [TGP], contributions from the Copano Energy acquisition, increased operational throughput at SACROC, and strong results from Products pipelines and Terminals business segments - natural gas segment also reported strong revenue growth.
During the second quarter, KMP increased its distributable cash flows to $561 million, or a $1.23 per unit, compared to $505 million, or a $1.22 per unit in the same period last year. Moreover, the partnership also increased its quarterly cash distributions per common unit to $1.39, or $5.56 per unit annualized, representing a 5% increase compared to the same period last year. However, the sequential growth in cash distributions was a bit disappointing at just 1%. This is due to the increasing number of unit count of the partnership, which resulted in lower sequential cash distributions increase. Nonetheless, the partnership remains on pace to meet or exceed its full-year distribution targets of 95% - 100% to its unit holders.
There has been a shift in the U.S. industrial and electric power sector's energy generation methods in the last few years. The industry is moving towards latest environmental friendly and cost-effective natural gas power generation from the conventional coal-fired power generation methods - thus, increasing natural gas demand. KMP is well positioned to benefit from the rising natural gas demand with its natural gas assets. The partnership has an extensive natural gas pipeline network and has been working on several projects to benefit from the situation (you can read a detailed analysis of KMP's natural gas assets here). During the second quarter, the natural gas segment reported revenues of $642 million, up 13% compared to $566 million in the same period last year. This increase is mainly due to the impressive performance at Tennessee gas pipeline [TGP] and contributions from the Copano transaction. Moreover, the natural gas pipeline segment is expected to exceed its targeted growth of 14% for the year. The partnership has been preparing for the rising natural gas demand, which we have discussed in detail in the article linked above.
For many years, the U.S. oil demand has been satisfied by the international supply with high transportation and handling costs. However, the recent shale boom in U.S. is now replacing the expensive international crude with cheaper supplement from the resource rich Bakken and Eagle Ford plays. The increased supply and production has resulted in high demand for terminals businesses across the U.S. Moreover, KMP has an impressive asset base in the Terminals business segments, with majority of its terminals located near high-demand areas. During the second quarter, the partnership reported $227 million as Terminals business revenues, which is up 19% from $191 million compared to the same period last year. This increase in revenues is due to the recent acquisition of American Petroleum Tankers [APT].
Further, the Terminals business is engaged in the marine transportation of crude oil, condensate and refined products in the U.S. KMP ordered several Jones Act qualified vessels which will increase its revenues over the next few years. With the booming oil production in the U.S. and high associated costs with the construction of new pipelines and expansion of already existing pipelines, marine shipment of oil allows KMP a low cost alternative to add more profitability to its books. Moreover, the phase two of the Edmonton Terminal expansion will add an additional 1.2 million barrels of storage capacity - the $432 million project is supported by long-term contracts with major producers and refiners and will be completed in late 2014, adding substantial revenues to the terminals segment. The Terminals segment is also on track to exceed its full year expected growth of 21%.
Despite missing the bottom line estimates, the overall results of the partnership are extremely impressive - almost all the business segments are showing strong growth. Furthermore, the annual growth in cash distributions remains strong. We have highlighted some growth areas in this article and we have also explained the position of the partnership in its business segments in our previous articles. We maintain that KMP remains a solid long-term investment with a considerable potential for capital appreciation and distributions growth.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014072319:46
SYMBOL = ECA
The turnaround is happening faster than expected at ECA.
It's not a pure play on natural gas anymore; the company has a diversified set of assets across NG, NGLs, and oil.
ECA is among the best shale assets in North America.
It has an accelerating growth trajectory with strong financial strength.
The recent pullback in shares is a buying opportunity.
Tomorrow is the earnings call for Q2 2014 at Encana (NYSE:ECA) and I expect some good news.
A bit of history first: ECA emerged as a pure play on natural gas (NG henceforth) in December 2009. It had split its oil business (Cenovus (NYSE:CVE)) in a separate division so as to focus on all its growth opportunities in its different shale plays. With hindsight, the timing of this split could not have been worse. Natural gas prices cratered due to the shale revolution and the lack of export opportunities (LNG stations) and excess supply. The stock quickly slumped and has remained at very low levels ever since.
Fast forward to June 2013 and the arrival of the new CEO, Doug Suttles. At that time, the company had already understood that its financial future was dependent on switching to "liquids" (NGLs and oil) and had already started shifting the ship in that direction. The year before (2012), it secured significant JVs with Asian partners who helped alleviate any financial constraints by sharing a significant amount of the Montney and Duvernay development costs.
Since the CEO's new arrival a year ago, the firm has transformed itself at a rapid clip. And the market has not caught up with the change. Well, it did for a while, with a strong performance at the beginning of the year (with the stock going from $18 to $24.5 helped by strong NG prices). But since then it retraced half of those gains in the last month, and the stock is down back to $21.5 (NG spot prices have dropped by 25% in the same period).
A significant part of my thesis in what follows is that ECA is not a natural gas pure play anymore. Instead, it now has a much more balanced portfolio of assets that allows it to switch back and forth between NG and oil assets (in terms of drilling); a valuable diversification benefit, or natural hedge, given how unpredictable commodity prices are.
Let's talk valuation. First of all, the easy part: Let's use some hard numbers from transaction and market data to determine the enterprise value. All data is from the firm's investor presentations, 10-Qs, press releases and peer firm's investor presentations.
What is the enterprise value of ECA? It corresponds to the amount necessary to acquire all of the firm's future free cash flows. By definition, it is equal to MV of equity + MV of debt (approximated by book value of debt) - Cash on hand (which can be used to pay down debt). Here are the numbers:
As of today, the market capitalization is equal to $16Bn.
Now, since end of Q1 2014, we have had several big transactions:
So the net debt is currently $6330 - (2160+1800+1800+530+1674-3100) ~ $1500M
This number of course assumes that they received all the proceeds from their asset sales (which is not the case quite yet) and that the operations were free cash flow neutral for Q2 (not a bad 1st order approximation). If that is correct, then the enterprise value (MV + Debt - Cash) is about 17.5Bn, which is significantly less than the numbers found on websites such as Yahoo Finance that are using end of Q1 values.
For that amount of money (assuming no takeover premium), what do you get? You get six world class resource plays (shale) that the firm is touting in its investor presentations lately. They include the five core plays identified in the restructuring efforts announced late last year plus the recently acquired EagleFord assets. I list them in turn with their net acreage:
The Montney production is increasing at a rapid clip. It is in full "industrial" or "hub" production mode with pad drilling. Costs are coming down every quarter. In Q1 2014, the firm claimed that all of their latest wells produced significantly above their type curve. They have a dominant position in the Montney, they actually have significantly more gross acreage (more than 800,000 acres!) but the net position reflects the fact that they signed a significant JV with an Asian partner that is carrying a significant portion of the drilling cost in exchange of some of its production. Encana is the operator. The scale of the resource play is twice as large as the Eagleford by certain estimates. Encana reports 12% liquids on average out of those wells, making them very profitable in the current commodity price environment.
Duvernay is a relatively new play still being delineated in its southern portion. It produces a significant amount of condensates, which trades at similar levels to WTI. The northern part (Kaybob) of the play is producing very profitable wells and ECA is already in industrial production mode there. Yoho Resources (OTCPK:YOHOF), a small player with acreage just next to ECA recently announced two very strong wells as well. Again, ECA has secured the sweet spot of the play and simply put, they again own a good portion of the play (approximately half according to the firm's investor presentation). It also formed a JV there to help accelerate the development of the resource. In the southern portion (Willesden Green), we are still waiting to hear how well the play is going to perform. The news is so far encouraging and ECA should announce before year-end the state of the play.
Now a look at its U.S. operations:
The DJ Basin asset is a relatively large area with a core position in the heart of the Wattenberg field (Niobrara shale is one of the resource they are drilling there). ECA does not disclose much per play but if you want to read about the quality of their acreage, they are right next to Bonanza Creek (NYSE:BCEI), which has seen its valuation go up more than 200% in the last two years. Multi-stacking and down-spacing are in order here. ECA itself stated that the wells improved dramatically in Q1 (both in terms of cost (through longer laterals) and production).
The San Juan play is very oily. ECA is a first mover in the oily part of the region. It is still being delineated somewhat and has some permitting issues but they have started the industrial or hub mode of drilling there and managed to significantly reduce costs already. WPX Energy (NYSE:WPX) is another big operator in the play. WPX obtained very good results in Q1 2014 and just added 6,000 acres to their position, which is encouraging.
Then there is the Tuscaloosa Marine Shale (NYSE:TMS). This one is somewhat of a wild card at this point in time. The entire play is basically run by three different companies: Goodrich Petroleum (NYSE:GDP), Halcon (NYSE:HK) and Encana. All three companies have large acreage positions and all are still proving their portion of the play. Wells are expensive there and all the players are still trying to crack the code to obtain consistency with their well results. So far, Encana has reported encouraging results. One of their deliverables for 2014 is to delineate more fully the play. Hopefully, we will hear more about it in the call or in the coming months.
Last but not least: Eagleford. The acquired acreage is in the sweet spot of the play (Karnes Trough area); all around them is EOG, which is producing the best onshore wells in North America. The operational cash flow of the play was greater than $300M in Q1 2014. Freeport McMoran (NYSE:FCX), its previous owner, actually already developed a significant portion of the play. The goal for ECA is to apply their skill to further increase the value of this asset. Given the remaining 400 well locations (before applying any EOR techniques), there is still room to improve the play. The good news is that it is already self-financed, and doubles ECA's oil production overnight. The price tag was high but fair: Few assets of this quality come to the market and ECA was there to take advantage of it and in doing so took a jump towards meeting their long-term (2017) goals.
Not only do you get those six plays, you also get at least three other valuable plays: Haynesville, Panuke, Piceance.
Panuke is in the news a lot given the $19 per Mcf obtained during Q1 2014. It went online in December 2013 and the timing was perfect with the cold winter vortex. It has premium pricing as it directly serves the North Eastern seaboard. Obviously, this asset will not contribute as much in Q2 and going forward but Q1 did show how valuable this asset can be. Panuke is fully operational, and while it will not bring in much outside of winter, it has the potential to contribute nicely to profits in the winter as it did in Q1 with more than $300M in operating profits.
Both Haynesville and Piceance are very nice NG heavy assets too, and they have basically been put to pasture (in terms of capex drilling) until NG prices improve. While ECA understands it is wiser to redirect capex dollars to oilier plays at this point in time, these assets remain very valuable. Haynesville can produce very big gas wells and will show its value once LNG stations are online and NG prices head back toward the $5-$6 range. The idea here is to keep the optionality of increasing NG production when pricing is more favorable.
So EV is approximately $17.5Bn and for that, you get six world class assets, a 54% stake in a unique oil&gas royalty firm (PrairieSky is a cash machine) plus three best-in-class NG assets that can be switched on at any time. Are these assets worth more or less than $17.5Bn?
Well, first, we can look at two market-based data points:
PrairieSky's stake is valued at $2.8Bn (70.2M shares * $40) using today's market price.
EagleFord's stake was purchased recently at $3.1Bn. Let's assume it was the fair price for it.
So we now have $5.9Bn already accounted for. This leaves $11.6Bn for the following assets, with a very rough estimate (comments welcome) of their valuation next to each of them:
For Montney, it is hard to put a value on that acreage; $1Bn per 100,000 acres seems fair if you compare with the EV of much smaller players in the play (Painted Pony Petroleum (PPY), Delphi Energy (OTCPK:DPGYF), Crew Energy (NYSE:CR), Advantage Oil and gas (NYSE:AAV)).
For Duvernay, we can use a similar reasoning; in the Kaybob, they have the ultimate sweet spot (see Yoho Resources, their small neighbor, for details on how well they are situated). For San Juan, it is still early days. Growth is going to accelerate with more rigs added to the play (WPX is ramping up production also).
TMS: Halcon is betting big on the play (and Apollo just provided $400M of financing to help them develop the play). Goodrich is closer to a pure play on the TMS. It has nice gas operations in the Haynesville but the market is valuing a big part of the firm for its TMS acreage (75% of their capex is in the TMS). Current EV of $2.1Bn for 300,000. So conservatively, the 200,000 ECA could be worth $1Bn.
For Deep Panuke, I am just repeating the numbers recently touted in a Bloomberg article ($1Bn seems low). Haynesville is hard to value (pure dry gas, not in vogue nowadays). They have significant acreage in the sweet spot of the play with very productive wells. But with low NG prices, ECA has stopped putting capex dollars there since the beginning of the year. Again, when NG prices go up, this is one of their crown jewel assets. Given their recent divestitures of much less prized NG assets, I put the value at $3Bn.
Last, I put also a value of $3Bn for Piceance. They have a very large acreage position there: 800,000 acres with 8,000 drilling locations according to an investor presentation from last year (this asset is not promoted by the firm these days as it pushes towards liquids). Although it is a dry gas heavy asset, it does have liquid potential in the Niobrara: It produced 5.4Mbbls/d in Q1 2014.
Adding up those values, we get $18Bn (again that is on top of the $5.9Bn for PrairieSky's remaining stake and the Eagleford). So the total is $23.9Bn compared to a current EV of approximately $17.5Bn. That leaves a $6.4Bn valuation gap. Using the current number of shares outstanding for ECA of 740M, this $6.4Bn gap would correspond to $8.6 of additional value per share, corresponding to a 40% discount from current market valuation. Admittedly, these are rough estimates. I would be surprised if the firm were to sell many more of those key assets in the short term (except Deep Panuke). They have been saying repeatedly that the idea is to build optionality. The assets they sold were arguably the "weaker" ones in the stable. And now they have a much more balanced portfolio of assets to develop. The point here is to highlight the disconnect between the valuation implied by the current share price and the value of the underlying assets the firm has.
So why the current discount? I see three reasons why and I argue below why the discount is undeserved.
Regarding the first point: It's undeserved. It is a Canadian firm, but half of its assets are in the US. The two key plays in Canada are Montney and Duvernay, two world class plays and they have the sweet spots in both. Deep Panuke gets premium pricing and as such is not subject to the capacity constraints issues in the AB/BC. DJ Basin, San Juan, Eagleford, Haynesville, Piceance and TMS are all in the US.
Regarding the second point: It's also undeserved. Their oil production is growing fast and the Eagleford is a game changer. The transition to liquids is happening much faster than what the markets are factoring in. They are nicely hedged in the short term also (most of their production at $4.17 for the rest of the year) and when the time comes for NG to recover (maybe two to three years from now, who knows?), they can turn on the switch and increase NG production significantly with their remaining NG assets. They made many transactions recently and I guess the conference call will give more clarity on this front. They have acted swiftly, but not hastily.
Regarding the third point: It's also undeserved. While it was a completely unfocused firm less than two years ago with capex spread out of more than 20 plays (!) and probably deserved a discount back then, ECA now has its capex dollars focused on their six core plays (to the tune of 75%). Add the "industrial scale" of their mostly contiguous acreage in each play and you have quite the player, with production across several states and across NG and oil. This type of diversification actually deserves a premium. It mitigates regulatory concerns for firms concentrated in only one play. And, more importantly, it allows the firm to easily switch between NG and oil depending on the pricing environment. I do not know of many firms in the sector that has this kind of flexibility and financial strength to carry out a growth plan without any risk of dilution for shareholders.
I personally view the slide we have been seeing in the last month as a buying opportunity before the ECA ship will have fully righted itself. Your comments below are welcome.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014072321:56
SYMBOL = LLY
The whisper number is $0.64, one cent behind the analysts' estimate.
Eli Lilly has a 74% positive surprise history (having topped the whisper in 23 of the 31 earnings reports for which we have data).
The overall average post earnings price move is "opposite" (beat the whisper number and see weakness, miss and see strength) when the company reports earnings.
Eli Lilly and Company (NYSE:LLY) is expected to report earnings on Thursday, July 24th. The whisper number is $0.64, one cent behind the analysts' estimate and showing no confidence from investors. Eli Lilly has a 74% positive surprise history (having topped the whisper in 23 of the 31 earnings reports for which we have data).
Our primary focus is on post earnings price movement. Knowing how likely a stock's price will move following an earnings report can help you determine the best action to take (long or short). In other words, we analyze what happens when the company beats or misses the whisper number expectation.
The table below indicates the average post earnings price movement within a one and thirty trading day timeframe:
The strongest price movement of -0.8% comes within twenty trading days when the company reports earnings that beat the whisper number, and +5.7% within ten trading days when the company reports earnings that miss the whisper number. The overall average price move is "opposite" (beat the whisper number and see weakness, miss and see strength) when the company reports earnings.
The table below indicates the most recent earnings reports and short-term price reaction:
The company has reported earnings ahead of the whisper number in three of the past four quarters with a whisper number. In the comparable quarter last year, the company reported earnings eleven cents ahead of the whisper number. Following that report, the stock realized a 3% gain in five trading days. Last quarter, the company reported earnings four cents short of the whisper number. Following that report, the stock realized a 2.2% gain in five trading days. Overall historical data indicates the company to be (on average within thirty trading days) an "opposite" price reactor when the company reports earnings.
Enter your expectation and view more earnings information here, or let us know your expectation in the comments section below.
Since 1998, WhisperNumber.com has been tracking and publishing "crowd sourced estimates" for earnings. We call these earnings expectations whisper numbers. Our whisper numbers are gained from individual investors and traders just like you that have registered with our site. While the whisper number itself is an important part of our analysis, a company's "price reaction" to beating or missing the whisper number expectation is the key. On average, companies that exceed the whisper are "rewarded," while companies that miss are "punished" following an earnings report. Trading on whispers is a technical play on market psychology, rather than a bet on a company's fundamental strengths.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014072322:06
SYMBOL = T
AT&T missed expectations as rising competition led to lower margins and earnings because AT&T was forced to cut prices.
Wireline continued to stabilize with U-verse showing strength, though the DirecTV acquisition will complicate the U-verse strategy.
Wireless service revenue fell as AT&T cut prices to keep customers from switching to T-Mobile, Sprint, or Verizon.
With weak operational results and a robust valuation, investors should sell T.
On Wednesday afternoon, AT&T (NYSE:T) reported its first set of quarterly results since announcing its bid for DirecTV (NASDAQ:DTV), which regulators are currently reviewing. I am not a fan of this merger because of valuation and a lack of strategic value (more on my view here), which is why I eagerly awaited these results. I had been hoping AT&T's current operating units would continue their stellar performance and outweigh my concerns about its upcoming acquisition. The strong results from Verizon (NYSE:VZ) that included wireline revenue growth and accelerating wireless subscriber additions only raised my hopes. Unfortunately, AT&T failed to meet expectations, sending shares down 1%, and I would continue to avoid shares until they trade back towards $30-$32.
In the company's second quarter, AT&T earned $0.62 on revenue of $32.57 billion while analysts were looking for $0.63 on sales of $33.4 billion (all financial and operating data available here). While revenue was up 1.5% year over year, EPS fell from last year's $0.67 as increased competition from T-Mobile (NYSE:TMUS) has significantly impacted margins. This quarter was certainly no disaster, but it was underwhelming. Its wireline unit faces challenges from secular trends towards wireless while its wireless unit toils amid more price competition from TMUS and Sprint (NYSE:S) while Verizon maintains an edge in network quality. These problems are arriving just as management is forced to divert some focus to getting a merger approved and then integrating assets. With these problems and distractions, it is best to avoid T, and I would rather own VZ.
On the wireline side, the story continues to be stabilization as the worst revenue loss appears to be in the rear view mirror. Wireline revenues were only down 0.9% year over year and up 0.2% quarter over quarter. The legacy landline business is still a major drag with customer losses of 758,000. AT&T has also struggled mightily on the business side with some small businesses moving more to wireless and cloud offerings, which sent revenue down 2.9% compared to last year.
U-verse continues to be the stand-out performer in the unit with 190k new TV subscribers while adding 488k internet subscribers. These gains helped increase its revenue by 25% year over year. Internet ARPU (average revenue per user) also jumped 6%, and U-verse now accounts for 62% of wireline consumer revenue. The success of U-verse has helped AT&T diversify away from landlines, which is clearly a declining business and is the primary reason wireline has stabilized. The strength of U-verse is one reason the DTV makes little sense as T will have to mothball much of it to avoid competing with itself in some markets by offering two TV products.
Wireless was also a mixed picture. The bulls can point to two solid data points. First, it added 1 million postpaid subscribers, which is the best performance in over four years. Additionally, churn hit a record low of 0.87%, meaning fewer customers left for another carrier. On the face of it, these statistics would suggest AT&T is more than holding its own despite rising competitive pressures. Unfortunately, this is too simplistic as AT&T has been significantly cutting prices to avoid customer losses. Initiatives like the Mobile Share Plan have kept the customer base but decreased the profitability of each customer. Price cutting led to a 7.7% decline in phone-only ARPU.
In fact even though AT&T has added subscribers, wireless service revenue fell by 1.4% year over year. Subscriber gains are not brisk enough to offset price declines, which is an indication of how AT&T is struggling against stronger competition. This decline in revenue and prices led to appreciable margin deterioration. Operating income margin dropped 300bp to 24.1% while EBITDA margin fell 220bp to 35.5%. Both profit measures declined faster than revenue because the fixed costs of running a wireless network remain high with a growing customer base. Unfortunately, this customer base is less profitable due to lower pricing.
Finally, AT&T maintained its free cash flow guidance of $11 billion and cap-ex spending of $21 billion. AT&T is currently trading 16.9x free cash flow and 14x earnings, based on my expectations of $2.58. For a company whose core wireless business is under siege, this is a rich multiple while its expensive purchase of DirecTV will be another headwind. With margins declining and a muddled strategy, investors would do well to rotate out of AT&T. While the dividend is nice, capital appreciation is unlikely. Investors will do better in more focused companies with better operating performances like Verizon.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014072322:09
SYMBOL = UNP
The whisper number is $1.44, one cent ahead of the analysts' estimate.
Union Pacific has an 80% positive surprise history (having topped the whisper in 28 of the 35 earnings reports for which we have data).
The overall average post earnings price move is "positive" (beat the whisper number and see strength, miss and see strength) when the company reports earnings.
Union Pacific (NYSE:UNP) is expected to report earnings on Thursday, July 24th. The whisper number is $1.44, one cent ahead of the analysts' estimate and showing little confidence from investors. Union Pacific has an 80% positive surprise history (having topped the whisper in 28 of the 35 earnings reports for which we have data).
Our primary focus is on post earnings price movement. Knowing how likely a stock's price will move following an earnings report can help you determine the best action to take (long or short). In other words, we analyze what happens when the company beats or misses the whisper number expectation.
The table below indicates the average post earnings price movement within a one and thirty trading day timeframe:
The strongest price movement of +2.2% comes within thirty trading days when the company reports earnings that beat the whisper number, and +4.4% within ten trading days when the company reports earnings that miss the whisper number. The overall average price move is "positive" (beat the whisper number and see strength, miss and see strength) when the company reports earnings.
The table below indicates the most recent earnings reports and short-term price reaction:
The company has reported earnings ahead of the whisper number in one of the past four quarters with a whisper number. In the comparable quarter last year, the company reported earnings seventeen cents short of the whisper number. Following that report, the stock realized a 1.1% gain in five trading days. Last quarter, the company reported earnings four cents short of the whisper number. Following that report, the stock realized a 5.9% gain in thirty trading days. Overall historical data indicates the company to be (on average within thirty trading days) a "positive" price reactor when the company reports earnings.
Enter your expectation and view more earnings information here, or let us know your expectation in the comments section below.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014072322:15
SYMBOL = MRK
MRK is the single most expensive company in the DJIA by price to earnings, nearly double the DJIA’s median of 18.4.
Merck’s current earnings payout ratio is nearly 116%.
I am long Merck but do not recommend purchasing shares of MRK at today’s prices.
I discussed the most undervalued companies currently in the Dow Jones Industrial Average ("DJIA") in Chevron: The Most Undervalued DJIA Component, which featured a slight focus at the end of the article on Chevron, the most undervalued company of the DJIA right now. This article is a continuation of my previous DJIA research and identifies the three DJIA companies which appeared most often among bottom 20% of DJIA companies when looking individually at:
Wikipedia was used to obtain the list of companies classified as a DJIA component. All metric and trading data was obtained from Yahoo! Finance. For each metric listed above the companies were sorted by their respective metric value from least to greatest, except for dividend yield which was sorted from greatest to least. Each company was assigned an initial point value of zero. A point was then assigned to each of the top six companies for each metric and a point was subtracted from each company in the bottom six for each metric. This means a maximum of 6 points and a minimum of -6 points was possible. The distribution of cumulative points for all six metrics can be seen below in Chart 1 (which, yes, happens to be a perfectly-shaped bell curve) and a complete list of the DJIA companies analyzed is available in Table 1.
Percent above 52-week low values were sorted from least to greatest. The median percent above 52-week low of all companies was approximately 19.2%, while the median percent above 52-week low of the bottom companies was approximately 38.7%. This implies the companies in Chart 2 have anywhere between 12% and 35% downside potential should they converge to the overall median. Everything always reverts to the mean/median.
Dividend yield values were sorted from greatest to least. The median dividend yield of all companies was approximately 2.7%, while the median dividend yield of the bottom companies was approximately 1.2%. This means the companies in Chart 3 could yield approximately $15,000 less in dividends than the median company over a ten year period assuming an initial investment of $100,000 and excluding the benefit of compounded dividends.
Earnings payout ratio values were sorted from least to greatest. The median earnings payout ratio of all companies was approximately 44.6%, while the median earnings payout ratio of the bottom companies was approximately 66.9%. While the overall median earnings payout ratio is well below the range where most dividend investors start to worry, the bottom companies are flirting with, and exceeding, the upper range of payout levels that generally make investors uncomfortable.
Price to earnings values were sorted from least to greatest. The median price to earnings of all companies was approximately 18.4, while the median price to earnings of the bottom companies was approximately 24.1. This means the companies in Chart 5 are approximately 1.3 times more expensive by price to earnings than the median company, which currently trades below the S&P 500's approximate 19.7 price to earnings.
Price to sales values were sorted from least to greatest. The median price to sales of all companies was approximately 2.3, while the median price to sales of the bottom companies was approximately 4.1. This means the median company is approximately 180% as expensive by price to sales than the companies in Chart 6.
Price to book values were sorted from least to greatest. The median price to book of all companies was approximately 3.4, while the median price to book value of the bottom companies was approximately 7.7. This means the companies in Chart 7 are approximately 2.3 times as expensive by price to book than the median company.
Only 12 of the 30 companies managed to survive this analysis with at least one total cumulative point, meaning 18 ended with zero or fewer cumulative points. The distribution of cumulative points for all six metrics can be seen in Chart 1 above and Table 2 below.
But Doug, wait a minute, I thought you recommended purchasing The Coca-Cola Company in Coca-Cola: Don't Miss Out Like I Did, and now you are saying it is overvalued? What gives? That's right, I did. And when I wrote that article at the beginning of 2014 I felt KO was undervalued, purchased it and am now sitting on a nice 8.2% return, excluding dividends, in just over half a year. But I'm not buying any more KO at today's prices, which brings me to Merck & Co. Inc.
Merck & Co. Inc.
As the title of this article insinuates, I am long Merck. I originally purchased shares of Merck back in 2010 as one of my original eight stock investments. Admittedly, I mistakenly identified MRK as a Dividend Aristocrat, when it in fact it was not. Oh well, the rest of the companies I purchased I identified correctly. I have not increased my position in Merck since my original investment in 2010 when MRK was yielding approximately 4.3% and am currently sitting on a nice 64.9% gain, excluding dividends, over the last four years almost to the day.
I have not opted to DRIP any of my investments that are eligible, all of which happen to be, but instead choose to accumulate my dividends in aggregate, along with any additional capital I contribute, and reinvest or make new purchases selectively. This selective approach requires constant evaluation of current valuations like those discussed above in this article.
When deciding where to deploy my capital I ask my current investments, "what have you done for me lately?" and potential investments, "what are you going to do for me?" In the case of MRK, I feel its capital appreciation has been very satisfactory but its dividend growth has been stagnant at worst and wimpy at best.
Merck was paying a $1.50 dividend per share in 2004, a $1.52 dividend per share during 2005 through 2010, and began increasing its dividend per share to my estimated annual dividend of $1.77 in 2014. All of this is to say MRK has managed to increase its dividend by only 1.7% compounded annually over the last decade! Compare this to Chevron's 10.7% compound annual growth rate I discussed in the article I linked to at the top of this article and you start to appreciate how low 1.7% really is.
*The total 2014 dividend is estimated assuming MRK makes the September/October payment they just announced and only increase their dividend by a just penny like they have in December in each of the last two years.
Combine Merck's low dividend growth with its current 115% earnings payout ratio and you start to wonder if MRK will have to reduce its dividend. Further, Merck is the single most expensive DJIA company by price to earnings, by nearly double, and twice as expensive as the median DJIA company by price to sales. Thankfully, Merck has been excellent at generating tremendous amounts of free cash flow over the last few years, averaging around only a 50% free cash flow payout ratio. If Merck did not have a history of strong free cash flow, I would likely be selling or shorting MRK in today's market. In conclusion, I am content to hold MRK for now but will not personally, nor can I recommend others to, be a buyer of MRK today.
Think Merck & Co. Inc. is actually undervalued because of potential blockbusters in its pipeline or perhaps my analysis along with pipeline concerns are great indicators to avoid or hold MRK for now? Comment below!
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014072322:28
SYMBOL = SXC
SunCoke plans to sell its coal mining business by year-end.
This is the ideal restructuring initiative for the company.
I felt that getting out of the coal business would be ideal since it buys most of its coal from other suppliers already.
In a press release earlier today, SunCoke (NYSE:SXC) said it would be looking to sell off its underperforming coal mining business by the end of 2014.
The segment will be considered a discontinued operation in its financial statements. Already this quarter, SunCoke has gotten offers for the purchase of the segment. More details will likely come when the company holds its 2Q earnings call tomorrow morning at 11:30 a.m. Eastern time.
I covered SunCoke back in February. Since then, shares are essentially flat. However, they were up 6.5% in after hours after the coal sell-off announcement.
In the February article, I noted that:
"...restructuring its operations would strengthen profitability. The continued drag on the company remains its coal mining segment... As a result, the company could well be looking to sell off its coal mining business. SunCoke already buys coal for its other plants and could do so for all of its operations, meaning a sale of its coal mining business would be easier than many would expect."
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014072323:48
SYMBOL = KNDI
KNDI is not creating an “illusion” of rapid company sales via increased EV Parts sales.
EV Parts sales in Q1 was a natural precursor to increased electric vehicle sales from their JV in Q2.
The Carshare program is not an inventory buildup vehicle. It is a customer that provides economic benefit to KNDI.
JV sales in Q2 of 4,114 electric vehicles implies strong sales growth with their customers, including the Carshare project.
KNDI is not gaming the system to maximize government subsidies. The Company receives subsidies because they provide EVs to consumers which helps alleviate China's air pollution problem.
Introduction
I felt the need to respond to Mr. Rabizadeh's recent short article on KNDI because I believe it is filled with numerous misinterpretations of KNDI's business and SEC filings. First, I will discuss why Mr. Rabizadeh's puzzling assertion that increasing EV Parts sales create an "illusion" of growth is not accurate. Next, I will discuss why Mr. Rabizadeh's is incorrect in his claim that the Carshare project provides little economic benefit to KNDI and is merely an inventory buildup vehicle. Then, I will refute his claim that there is no way for investors to meaningfully gauge performance of EV sales to the Carshare project. Finally, I will discuss why Mr. Rabizadeh's is incorrect in his belief that KNDI is receiving government subsidies through disingenuous methods such as inflating sales via inventory buildup tactics at their subsidiaries.
Growth in EV Parts Business an Indication of Growth, Not an "Illusion"
In Mr. Rabizadeh's article, he states the following:
The 10-Q also states that 60% of EV Sales were to KNDI subsidiaries ("Kandi Electric Vehicles (Shanghai)" and "Kandi Electric Vehicles (Changxing)")…The more concerning part is how KNDI spun this to boast 174% revenue growth from $14.7M to $40.2M. Without this questionable tactic, revenue growth would have been roughly flat.
Mr. Rabizadeh is basically saying that KNDI is artificially inflating their results by propping up their sales with an EV Parts business which sells products at a loss. These statements are very misleading because it does not take into full context the relationship between KNDI's EV Parts business and the KNDI-Geely JV.
Before discussing the relationship between KNDI's EV Parts sales and their JV, it would be helpful to first have another look at KNDI's organizational chart which I have pasted below.
As you can see, KNDI owns 50% of "Kandi Electric Vehicles Group." This JV was established with Geely for the production and sales of electric vehicles. As part of the JV agreement, KNDI agreed to contribute their EV manufacturing plant in Changxing and Geely agreed to contribute their manufacturing operations in Shanghai.
Following the contribution of these assets, the JV became a 100% owner of KNDI's manufacturing operations in Changxing ("Kandi Electric Vehicles (Changxing)") and Geely's manufacturing operations in Shanghai ("Kandi Electric Vehicles (Shanghai)"). This is clearly illustrated in the organizational chart above.
The latest 10Q provides the following breakout of KNDI's sales to their JV:
As can be seen, in Q1 2014, KNDI had over $24mm of sales to their JV via purchases from the JV's Changxing and Shanghai subsidiaries. The latest 10Q makes it clear that the manufacturing operations in Changxing and Shanghai are for the production of electric vehicles. Consider the following statement in the 10Q:
In March 2013, Kandi Vehicles formed Kandi Electric Vehicles (Changxing) Co., Ltd. ("Kandi Changxing") in the Changxing (National) Economic and Technological Development Zone. Kandi Changxing is engaged in the production of EVs….Kandi Vehicles transferred 100% of its ownership in Kandi Changxing to the JV Company
Thus, it is a logical conclusion that of the $25mm of EV Parts sales that KNDI reported in Q1, the vast majority of these sales ($24mm out of $25mm) were to supply EV parts to the JV's manufacturing subsidiaries in Changxing and Shanghai. The EV parts that KNDI is selling to the JV are used by the JV's manufacturing subsidiaries to produce electric vehicles.
KNDI's sourcing of EV parts for the JV business is a legitimate business transaction that they must report in their financial statements. These parts will be used by the JV to manufacture electric vehicles that the JV will then sell to customers, like the Carshare project, with the profits being split 50/50 by KNDI and Geely. KNDI did not get into the EV business to profit off of sales of EV parts, so the fact that KNDI makes little to no money from this business as of now is not a concern. The management team knows that the real profits are in the actual sale of electric vehicles.
So what does this all mean? Well, it means that Mr. Rabizadeh's assertions that KNDI is misleading investors by inflating their EV Parts sales does not make much logical sense. I think a more sensible conclusion from all of this is the following:
KNDI is providing EV parts to their JV. KNDI sources most of these parts from third parties and also manufactures a small percentage of these parts.
The KNDI-Geely JV uses these parts at their manufacturing operations in Changxing and Shanghai to provide electric vehicles
In Q1 2014, KNDI's JV purchased a meaningful amount of EV parts from KNDI in order to ramp-up of production of electric vehicles in anticipation of a large increase in EV sales in Q2 2014
In Q2 2014, KNDI's JV sold 4,114 electric vehicles which was a large increase from the prior quarter and provides confirmation that the purchase of EV Parts from KNDI was demand related and not inventory buildup / channel stuffing.
So, while it is true that KNDI's EV Parts sales are not profitable (essentially breakeven) and are attributable to increased sales from their JV subsidiary, investors should view this as a positive. Increased parts sales are an indication that the JV expects strong demand for their electric vehicles. The EV Parts business, right now, is essentially a pass-through item for KNDI. The real profits for the KNDI's EV business will come from the sales of electric vehicles through their JV. Thus, Mr. Rabizadeh's claim that KNDI is using "questionable tactics" by intentionally inflating sales via their EV Parts business does not hold water. His argument that KNDI is merely stuffing the channel and building up inventory might have a leg to stand-on if EV sales at the JV declined or remained stagnant. However, this is clearly not the case given the JV's sale of 4,114 electric vehicles in Q2 2014.
KNDI is Currently Benefiting and Will Continue to Benefit from the Carshare Project
The statements in Mr. Rabizadeh's article that I felt were the most off-base were his comments on the Carshare project. Consider the following quotes in his short article:
The Carshare project does sound promising as it seems to be rapidly growing. The problem is, it's not clear how much economic benefit KNDI will get from the rental revenue….Without any other information about the Carshare project, we have to assume that KNDI only has a 9.5% economic interest in the Carshare project (remember, it's 50% of 19% since it's a JV with Geely).
However, thanks to their creative organizational setup and carefully worded press releases, KNDI is creating the impression that sales are exploding -- when, in fact, all that is exploding is the buildout of inventory from one KNDI subsidiary to another.
Importantly, we have no idea how the Carshare project is actually doing. KNDI has only released data to date on sales of EVs to the Carshare project. For all we know, actual rental revenue is not growing or not operating profitably.
So, let's discuss some of these comments one-by-one. First, I will discuss Mr. Rabizadeh's comment that it is not clear how much economic benefit KNDI will receive from the Carshare program's rental revenue. Well, this is true, but it is ultimately an empty statement. The primary economic benefit to KNDI from the Carshare program is from the sale of electric vehicles from KNDI's JV to the Carshare program, NOT from the rental revenue. This is clear when reading the description of "EV Products" sales in the latest 10Q:
During the three months ended March 31, 2014, our revenues from the sale of EV products increased by $6,641,054, or 384.5%, as a result of a 105.3% increase in unit sales and a 136.0% increase in the average unit price compared to the same period of last year. The significant increase was mainly attributable to the newly-added EV model -Kandi Brand SMA7000BEV, a five-door and five-seat vehicle, and SMA7001BEV, an improved model of electric vehicle, both of which are sold at a significantly higher prices. The increased unit sales were driven by sales to Hangzhou Public EV Sharing System (the "Carshare" Project).
KNDI effectively owns 9.5% of the Carshare project, so the incremental rental revenue that they will receive from that small stake will be a nice added bonus. Ultimately, however, KNDI has and continues to expect to make the majority of their profits from the JV's sale of EVs to the Carshare program.
Next, I will discuss Mr. Rabizadeh's assertion that "KNDI is creating the impression that sales are exploding -- when, in fact, all that is exploding is the buildout of inventory from one KNDI subsidiary to another." What he seems to be implying is that KNDI is essentially selling to themselves by transferring inventory from their JV (of which KNDI owns 50%) to the Carshare program (of which KNDI owns 9.5%). This is completely false. Just because KNDI's JV owns a small stake in the Carshare program does not mean that they are essentially selling to themselves. It is not very complicated or confusing, the JV sells electric vehicles to the Carshare program and receives money (at a profit) for the vehicles that they sell to the program.
Think about it this way… Let's say that I owned 1 share of Microsoft. At the same time, assume that I coded a piece of software that I sold to Microsoft for $1 million. So, because I own 1 share of Microsoft, does that mean that I am essentially selling to myself for no economic benefit? Of course not! I am pretty sure I would still receive $1 million. The same concept applies to the electric vehicle sales of KNDI's JV to the Carshare program.
Finally, in regards to Mr. Rabizadeh's comment that "we have no idea how the Carshare project is actually doing." Well, this one is a fairly easy statement to refute. First, let me repost the following quote from the 10Q which I referenced earlier:
During the three months ended March 31, 2014, our revenues from the sale of EV products increased by $6,641,054, or 384.5%, as a result of a 105.3% increase in unit sales and a 136.0% increase in the average unit price compared to the same period of last year. The significant increase was mainly attributable to the newly-added EV model -Kandi Brand SMA7000BEV, a five-door and five-seat vehicle, and SMA7001BEV, an improved model of electric vehicle, both of which are sold at a significantly higher prices. The increased unit sales were driven by sales to Hangzhou Public EV Sharing System (the "Carshare" Project).
The Company explicitly states that the growth in EV products was due primarily to the Carshare program. In regards to Q2 2014, as I also mentioned previously, the Company just issued a press release which stated that EV sales in Q2 totaled 4,114. Although KNDI has not reported a breakdown of sales by customer, this explosive growth in EV sales implies strong growth at most of the JV's customers, including the Carshare program. So, I believe we do in fact have a pretty good indication of how the Carshare project is doing. It seems to be doing exceptionally well in fact. Also, at the end of the day, regardless of what customers are providing this growth, the fact is KNDI's JV is growing at a strong rate. This is the most important fact that an investor in KNDI should consider.
KNDI Has Strong Support from the Chinese Government
The last point that I would like to refute from Mr. Rabizadeh's short article is his claims that KNDI is gaming the subsidy system by employing tactics that "helps them qualify for the maximum amount of government subsidies, thus making KNDI a viable and profitable business model." Does it really make sense that the Chinese government would support a company that simply exists for its own benefit by collecting incentives by inflating sales through internal inventory buildup. Somehow, I don't think the Chinese government is that stupid. This allegation is really out of line. The more logical conclusion would be that KNDI receives subsidies because they have been successful in selling electric vehicles to real consumers, not fake sales through internal buildup.
Conclusion
In conclusion, I disagree with all of the key points in Mr. Rabizadeh's recent short article. KNDI is not misleading investors by artificially inflating EV Parts sales. Instead, the growth in EV Parts sales in Q1 2014 was a natural precursor to increased electric vehicle sales from their JV in Q2 2014. KNDI is NOT receiving limited economic benefit from the Carshare program. In fact, KNDI receives a great deal of benefit via the sale of electric vehicles from their JV to the Carshare program. Based on KNDI's recently reported electric vehicle sales of 4,114 in Q2, the JV is exceeding expectations and will most likely continue to provide tremendous benefit to KNDI and its shareholders. Finally, as a result of their continued success, KNDI should continue to receive strong incentive support from the Chinese government. Thus, I believe that the recent correction in KNDI's stock price represents an attractive entry point for a long investor.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071518:02
SYMBOL = DIS
The Walt Disney Company ranks 17th on the Forbes list of most valuable brands, and its default risk is in the best 3% of technology, media and telecommunications peers.
Most "brand name" company bonds we have reviewed to date do not offer "good value" as measured by the ratio of credit spread to default probability.
The Walt Disney Company is an exception, with its bonds trading near the "best value" median on July 11, 2014.
The Walt Disney Company (NYSE:DIS) ranks 17th on the Forbes ranking of the world's most valuable brands. In this note, we turn to the U.S. dollar bonds issued by the Walt Disney Company and compare its current default probabilities and credit spreads with those on all heavily traded corporate fixed-rate bonds on July 11 and 14, 2014. A total of 65 trades were reported on 8 fixed-rate bond issues of the Walt Disney Company with trading volume of $28.9 million on July 11. The Walt Disney Company was the 16th most actively traded corporate bond issuer on July 11. On July 14, there were 45 trades in 10 bond issues for $5.8 million. We use this information for three purposes: to evaluate the risk and return on the firm's bonds, to evaluate the firm's credit risk-adjusted dividend yield, and to reach a conclusion on investment grade status by the modern "Dodd-Frank" definition.
Conclusion: We believe that a strong majority of sophisticated analysts would rate the Walt Disney Company a solid "investment grade" company by the modern Dodd-Frank definition. Regular readers know that the exceptionally low default risk of the Walt Disney Company is rare, much appreciated, and insufficient reason to buy the bonds. We need to ask one more question in that regard: are the bonds "good value" relative to their default risk? We have often found that the answer is "no" for iconic brand names. With respect to the Walt Disney Company, however, the good news is that the bonds offer value near the median of all heavily traded bonds on July 11.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071518:02
SYMBOL = AN
Vehicle sales accelerated during the quarter.
Harsh winter drives Parts & Service revenue.
Results aided by record recalls.
The consensus earnings estimate for AutoNation (NYSE:AN) has edged higher by a penny since the start of the second quarter to $0.87 per share, with revenue estimated to be $4.79 billion, which represents 19.2% year-over-year earnings growth and 8.2% revenue growth. While this is a solid improvement over last quarter when the company grew earnings by 10.3% and revenue by 6.5%, there appears to be plenty of room for the company to get back to the double-digit revenue growth numbers it has posted for most of the past few years.
For starters, unit sales for new vehicles grew by 8.4% during the quarter, which is an increase from the 4.6% posted last quarter, and even with the average ticket price ticking lower as expected, this means total new vehicle sales will accelerate from the 7.6% posted in the first quarter to more than 11% for the second quarter. Used car sales growth typically falls within 400 basis points of new car sales, which means used car revenue should have been able to grow by 7.5% during the quarter. Those two data points make up roughly 80% of AutoNation's total sales and any upside to these numbers should allow for total revenue growth to return to double-digits.
Vehicle sales, however, was not the big story for AutoNation during the second quarter when we move down to the bottom line, and perhaps it isn't for the year either. While Parts & Services only makes up about 15% of the company's total revenue, it accounts for 40% of the company's gross profit and there were three important trends to help boost demand for AutoNation's Parts & Services revenue. The first is long-term and more secular. As AutoNation grows its business either organically or through acquisition, it gains a customer base of future oil changes, tire rotations, and normal repairs. Consequently, Parts & Services revenue has grown right along with vehicle sales.
The second, and largest contributor for second quarter Parts & Services revenue, is the damage done to vehicles during the severe winter experienced throughout much of the U.S. Harsh winter conditions are hard on vehicles and while some of that work was done during the first quarter, much of it was likely pushed back after March. Last year, when winter conditions were not so severe, the company still saw sequential increases in Parts & Services revenue in both the first and second quarters.
The third driver of Parts & Services revenue is the number of recalls from the auto manufacturers. While recalls have historically been a small percentage of AutoNation's revenue, U.S. automakers have recalled more cars during the first six months of 2014 than they have in any previous full calendar year. There have been a total of 40 million vehicles recalled so far this year, which is 43% higher than all of last year. Given these trends, there is upside room to AutoNation's more profitable business segment as well and that is expected to result in a positive surprise for the quarter.
Revenue whispers are around $4.81 billion and, with the assumption that margins will stay roughly the same as last quarter, the Earnings Whisper number is $0.91 per share. Earnings Whisper Score of +4 indicates a 65% chance of a higher stock price on earnings
Based mainly on this expectation, the Earnings Whisper Score is +4, which has shown in the past to result in a higher stock price roughly 65% of the time when the company reports earnings, and the primary reason keeping the score from getting to a +5 is the strong move already made by the stock. We often point out that stocks go higher ahead of positive earnings, gap higher on positive results, drift higher following upside surprises, or a combination of the three... but they very seldom do all three. The move higher in recent weeks heading into the company's earnings release means one of the three moves has already occurred.
Earnings Whisper Number for AN
We also often say that stocks of companies with estimates going to new highs tend to see their price go to new highs, but in AutoNation's case, the stock has gone to new highs ahead of the earnings estimates. Furthermore, if we measure the move from the January low just before the company's earnings release to the $53 area, the push through this resistance gives a technical target of $61, which was hit last week.
The spike in volume at $58 both at the end of May and in late June should be noted for future support areas should the stock see selling on the news. AutoNation is scheduled to report earnings before the market opens on Thursday, July 17, 2014 with a conference call at 11:00 AM ET.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071518:19
SYMBOL = NCR
Intel benefited from the Windows XP upgrade cycle brought about by Microsoft's termination of its support.
There are reasons to believe this same upgrade cycle might benefit NCR.
Yet, NCR's earnings estimates do not yet reflect any improvement. There is potential opportunity in anticipating this improvement.
Today, Intel (NASDAQ:INTC) reported better-than-expected earnings. Much of the recent improvement for Intel came from a surge of PC upgrades tied to the fact that Windows XP lost support from Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT).
Now, for the most part, the Intel ship has already sailed and we can't profit from it. The Microsoft ship seems to have gone a long way as well. One wonders, though, if there's another way to take advantage of this Windows XP upgrade cycle that's not yet been discounted by the market.
You can see where this is going. I am going to put forward NCR Corp. (NYSE:NCR) as a chance to bank on that upgrade cycle.
Business
The reason why I believe NCR is poised to take advantage from the Windows XP upgrade cycle has to do with NCR's business. NCR is the U.S. leader in providing ATM machines, and 74% of its revenues are tied to hardware or hardware-related maintenance revenues (Source: Company presentation).
While the company is expected to see greater growth from software, it's obvious that the hardware segment is still extremely important.
ATMs
It is in this hardware/ATM segment that there might be a chance to generate a favorable story and perhaps some upside for NCR's earnings estimates. In the last 90 days, these haven't moved favorably - indeed, they have taken a beating at the last earnings report (Source: Yahoo Finance)
Why would this segment now provide a surprise? It turns out that 95% of the world's ATMs (as well as the American ATMs) still run Windows XP. While some of these might be software-upgradeable to Windows 7, many won't have the hardware for it and will need either hardware upgrades or straight-down substitution. This obviously favors ATM suppliers, and NCR is the prime supplier standing ready to benefit.
As we saw from Intel's earnings, the main impact of the Windows XP upgrade started taking place in this very quarter, along with the end of Microsoft's support. It seems most institutions delayed the cycle to the very end. Yet, as we saw from NCR's earnings consensus, there has not yet been any upward move on those estimates. As such, there's a good likelihood that NCR will surprise on the upside.
Conclusion
Intel saw increased demand due to an upgrade cycle brought about by the Windows XP loss of support. Intel has already sailed, but NCR has not, yet the ATM market is overwhelmingly running Windows XP, and a lot of those machines will likely have to be substituted or upgrades. NCR seems likely to benefit in the short term.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071518:29
SYMBOL = CYS
CYS to pay dividend on July 16, 2014.
Dividend return 14% and opportunity to receive better return.
CYS stock price is down, and now is a great buy-in opportunity.
Interest Rate Risk effects and profitability.
CYS Investments, Inc. (NYSE: CYS) will pay its dividend of $0.32 per share on July 16, 2014. The stock price the day before the ex-dividend date on June 19 had a high/low of $9.18/$9.11. This put the yield at 14%. Since the ex-dividend date, the stock price has dropped to a low of $8.62.
The company has paid $0.32 or $0.34 over the last 6 quarters, and with the steady markets and no sudden change in interest rates, this level of earnings is expected to remain constant in the near future.
The opportunity now exists to buy CYS Investments and receive a higher return over the next 90 days. With the stock price moving in the $8.60s to $8.70s, the annualized dividend yield return would be higher. Always buy on the downside and ride the price up. We can see the 90-day cycle, and this provides an excellent opportunity to improve our return on our investment.
Interest Rate Risk: The Federal Reserve Board has stated their goal to stabilize the markets and allow for a continued growth in the economy. Their current position of very low interest rates and the continued reduction of buying less government bonds have maintained a positive force in the longevity of this stable period for investment companies. The Board may discontinue buying bonds in October, 2014. The Board has stated their goal to focus on the economy and will adjust as needed, but since Janet Yellen has been the Federal Reserve Chair, there have been no major adjustments to the policy.
The interest rates are not expected to go up in 2014, but the Board has discussed the possibility of increases in 2015. This will impact all companies in the financial markets, as many borrow huge sums (read millions or billions) to finance their operations. The increase of ¼ of 1 percent would raise the cost of money and affect their income statements. Many companies like CYS Investments have hedge investments to soften the effect, but there is still an adjustment period to the new rates.
CYS Investments has a portfolio with some hedges that will manage the effects; as the company moves forward into 2015, it will continue to observe the Fed's comments and actions and adjust its portfolio as it requires.
Increasing interest rates are not bad. The higher rates will allow the company to have a higher profit margin in its portfolio and increased profits. It is the adjustment period that will be financially challenging during that time. It is not a question of "if it will happen, but when".
Stock prices will initially drop when the Fed allows interest rates to rise, but will settle, and investors should see stock prices appreciate after the increase in rates stabilizes. Over time, we could see the dividends increase as well.
There are two methods of investing in CYS that we recommend. First, the buy and hold, which allow you to receive quarterly dividends that currently pay over 14%. With the stock price down after the ex-dividend date, now is a great time to buy in.
The second method is to buy the low, which means buying in after the ex-dividend date and riding the stock price up to just prior to the next ex-dividend date in September (the exact date has not been announced), and selling a few days before that date. The stock price has dropped more than the dividend amount, and your return if you choose this method earns you a higher return, with a little more work. Both provide you with over 14% return, and you can take the cash or reinvest to grow your portfolio faster.
We recommend CYS Investments Inc. as a buy and hold. We do recommend investors watch the Federal Reserve Board for their action to allow interest rates to rise. There will be effects, just too many variables to determine the outcome. Even after the rates go up, CYS Investments will be a solid dividend producer.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071520:05
SYMBOL = JPM
Earnings and revenue declined with respect to this time last year.
I bought a small batch of the stock this morning because revenues and earnings increased from last quarter, and I feel it can be a good start to a turnaround.
The stock yields 2.75% at these levels.
The last time I wrote about JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE:JPM) I stated:
"Due to the stock being overbought, 2015 earnings estimate cuts, and declining return on equity, I will not be pulling the trigger here right now and will choose to reevaluate if the dividend yield gets closer to 3%."
Since that article was published, the stock is up 0.64% (3.52% of that move came today on the back of earnings and was down as low as 4%), while the S&P 500 (NYSEARCA:SPY) is up 1.14%. It's safe to say that I saved some heartache by not putting on a position back then. JPMorgan is a financial holding company and is engaged in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small business, commercial banking, financial transaction processing, asset management and private equity.
The company reported earnings before the market opened on 15Jul14 and on the surface the results were excellent with the company reporting earnings of $1.59 per share (beating estimates by $0.30) on revenue of $25.3 billion (beating estimates by $1.54 billion). The stock increased 3.52% the day it reported earnings and what I'd like to do at this time is delve into the weeds and pick out some highlights from different portions of the report to see if the stock is worth buying at the present time.
This segment of the bank accounts for the lion's share of revenue, accounting for 45%. This segment houses credit cards; auto, education, and home loans; and retirement & investing under its umbrella. The biggest thing I noticed in this segment of the bank was that provisions for credit losses increased 4584% ($871 million) from the prior year. The increase in provision was due to a $357 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses and total net charge-offs. Another astronomical figure is the 21% drop in net income from last year, which was in large part due to the increased provisions and lower net revenue; however, that number did increase from last quarter.
This segment of the company accounts for 35% of revenues. The first eye popping thing I see is decreased provisions for credit losses, a benefit to the tune of $78 million, and benefit difference of $133 million from last quarter. However, net income decreased a whole 31% from last year primarily due to lower revenue in addition to higher noninterest expense.
Commercial Banking is responsible for about 7% of all revenues. The main thing I see in this segment is provision for credit losses dropped 252% from the prior year ($111 million) and 1,440% ($72 million) from the prior quarter.
Looking at Asset Management (which accounts for about 12% of revenues), what strikes me as compelling is that provision for credit losses decreased 96% from the prior year ($22 million) while increasing 111% from the prior quarter ($10 million). Net income increased 10% from last year on the back of higher net revenue thanks to client inflows and the effect of higher market levels and a 1% increase to net interest income because of higher loan and deposit balances. Net income was also 25% higher than the previous quarter.
This segment of the company only accounts for 1% of all revenues. On this side of the business net revenue increased 170% when compared to last year but decreased 27% from the prior quarter. Provision for credit losses decreased 300% from last year while noninterest expense decreased 75% in the same timeframe but increased 208% from the prior quarter. All this added up to give the segment a 167% increase in net income from last year, or a 9% gain from last quarter.
The increase in provision for credit losses for the company as a whole was at 1,372% or $645 million is not great in my eyes. Not only did provisions for credit losses increase, what I don't like is that earnings per share decreased 9% from the prior year but increased 14% from the prior quarter. The 14% increase in earnings may mark a turnaround in the bank. Personally I don't like that total revenue for the company decreased 2% from last year but the 6% increase from last quarter is pretty good. If there was a bright spot, it was that tangible book value increased 8% from last year. JP Morgan's share price was up 6.33% from the prior earnings release excluding dividends.
The results of this quarter were obviously outstanding to investors as was evidenced in the share price of the stock, jumping 3.52% after reporting, albeit I believe at the expense of lowered expectations. The combination of decreased earnings and decreased revenues makes me cringe. Although the company reported results less than stellar from last year, the results were great with respect to last quarter and that's why I believe the market cheered the results. I have mixed emotions about the results but I will admit I bought a small stack of shares this morning on the hopes that these results can propel the company going forward.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071520:13
SYMBOL = GTE
Gran Tierra made one of the largest onshore discoveries in Latin America in 2013.
With the sale of its Argentina operations the company can focus more on core areas now.
Already seeing accelerated development of Block 95 in Peru.
On May 29th Gran Tierra Energy (NYSEMKT:GTE) agreed to sell its Argentina operations to Madalena Energy (OTCPK:OTCPK:MDLNF) for $69 million. The deal comprised of $49 million in cash, $14 million worth of Madalena shares, and $6 million worth of working capital adjustments. While discussing the deal with other shareholders, many seemed disappointed that it was not more. Dana Coffield, Gran Tierra's President and Chief Executive Officer had this to say about the sale:
"As a result of our recent significant exploration success in Peru, ongoing success in Colombia and ongoing evaluations in Brazil, we are focusing Gran Tierra Energy's human and capital resources in areas that we believe will provide the greatest return for our shareholders and drive growth in the future."
This is great to hear. Regardless as to if it was enough or not, in my opinion, I would rather see the company focus more in Colombia and Peru.
Colombia is the core of the business right now. Including the Argentina operations, Colombia makes up about 80% of total production and without it the number is about 90%. The company has about 4.3 million gross acres (22 blocks) in Colombia. The proved reserves in Colombia are 36.0 MMBOE. Its main holdings are located in the Putumayo Basin where it is the #1 landholder, producer, and reserve holder. While the prospects in Colombia are great and production should be sustained and continue to grow for a long time, this is where an investment in Gran Tierra is not for the faint of heart. Ongoing political turmoil has been a big issue in Colombia for years now. But before investing in Gran Tierra I did research into how big of an issue the FARC and other militant movements in the country were. My research concluded that these groups pose a very small threat, and that the threat is at an all-time low. Peace talks continue and the Colombian government is doing everything in its power to protect companies like Gran Tierra. While the threat posed is small it does not mean there is not one. In January of this year, two of Gran Tierra's trucks were stopped on a rural road and set alight by the FARC. The presidential election this past May has put out any remaining fears I had as Juan Santos was re-elected. He was the defense minister for a time and has a strong stance to use force against the FARC if necessary. All in all I am not concerned that any operations by militants or changes in politics will in any large way affect production and operations anytime soon.
While Colombia has the bulk of production currently, its land in Peru has the most potential. The company currently has 5.8 million acres and is expected to be producing 2,500 boe/d in Peru by the fourth quarter. Gran Tierra has a 100% working interest in block 95 where it made one of the largest onshore discoveries in Latin America in 2013. This discovery, the Bretaña field, will be where most of the capital plan for 2014 in Peru will be focused. In total $148 million is the planned capital program in Peru for this year, but I wouldn't be surprised if that number is increased with the sale of the Argentina business. The original 2014 capital program called for $44 million in Argentina of which only $6.5 million was spent before the sale. On June 5th Bloomberg posted an article that Gran Tierra actually expects to have production in Peru much quicker because of permitting changes in Peru. The plan was to be producing 6,000 boe/d by 2017 in Peru but with the permitting changes it expects to beat this target by a year. To quote the piece and Dana Coffield, "Peru's push to achieve oil self-sufficiency by streamlining rules and boosting output should make it possible for Gran Tierra to accelerate a 2021 Bretana production target of 20,000 to 40,000 barrels a day by 'a couple of years,' Coffield said." This is huge news. This target is only for block 95 and that alone would be doubling current production.
Estimated reserves for Block 95:
Along with the potential at Block 95 the company also has 4 other Blocks in Peru, 107,123,129 and 133, for which development is expected to begin in 2015/16. As the development progresses I would expect next year's capital program for Peru to be much more (especially with the Argentina sale). I wouldn't be surprised if drilling begins later this year, maybe in the fourth quarter. According to that same Bloomberg article, Gran Tierra expects to make even larger discoveries in Peru other than block 95 based on seismic data for the other blocks.
Gran Tierra also holds about 48,000 acres in Brazil where it just recently got a foothold. It has 7 blocks in the Reconcavo Basin where over 1.5 billion BO have been produced to date. I won't go into detail here because its position in Brazil is so small compared to Colombia and Peru.
Financially Gran Tierra is in a great position. The company's balance sheet is very pretty. One thing that really stands out is the fact that it has no debt. At the end of March the company had about $400M in cash and of course it has added $50M to that with the sale. The company is expected to make about 15 cents a share for Q2 and Q3, and 63 cents a share for FY14. Analysts have an average price target of $9.90 which points to an upside of almost 40%. 18 analysts have it as a buy rating and 2 have it as a hold currently.
In conclusion, Gran Tierra has several very promising years ahead of it. As production continues to grow steadily in Colombia, and development in Peru is ongoing, the company looks very well positioned for great mid-term and long-term growth. With the sale of the Argentina operations it can better focus on Colombia and Peru where the potential is huge.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071521:13
SYMBOL = WTW
The current decline in WTW's stock price could signal a bargain buy.
The bull side of the story is WTW's long-standing history, loyal customer base, and proven weight loss results.
The bear side of the story is continued decline in meeting revenue, threats from mobile competitors, and the threat from Tesco.
The weight-loss industry is comprised of fads and staples. Weight-loss fads are ideas that intrigue consumers, capture their pockets for a brief moment, but dissipate when the consumer sees no results. Weight-loss staples are companies with historically successful programs and strong management teams that adapt to emerging trends in the industry. Weight Watchers (NYSE: WTW) is a staple.
Past fads and economic downturns have affected WTW's stock performance, but operating income has never dropped by more than 10% year over year over the past 10 years (with the exception of 2009). Unstructured market sentiment from Seeking Alpha and Motley Fools sees the current decline in the stock price as an opportunity to buy WTW at a bargain. However, over the past month, WTW's mentions on Stock Twits have mostly been bearish due to subpar earnings performance. Therefore, investors should approach with caution as future earnings turnaround is still uncertain.
WTW's business is centered around weekly meetings, which make up 54% of total revenue. Meetings are facilitated by over 10,000 "Leaders" in North America and Europe, and take place in WTW owned locations, community centers, or fitness locations. Meetings range from $10-$14/week and consist of an hour of group discussions and product demonstrations. Members weight themselves to keep track of progress. These meetings essentially provide a social support system for members.
Free mobile weight-loss apps have emerged as a substitute for WTW's PointsPlus system, but their effectiveness at helping customers lose weight is still unproven. App users complain that apps do not motivate users to stick to a strict diet. By contrast, WTW's weekly meetings creates a social environment that provides users with internal and external motivation to change to a healthier lifestyle. Losing weight is not an easy task; it requires discipline and motivation. The app could be valuable to self-motivated individuals who only need to track what they eat, but for those that cannot lose weight alone the app is useless.
WTW Financial Performance FY 2013 (Source: 2013 WTW 10-K)
Total revenue has declined by 6%; however, Internet sales (including advertisement and Weight Watchers Online products) increased by 4%.
EBITDA has declined by 12% since 2011, driven by the investments in mobile technology.
Earnings declined 20%, caused by refinancing of the business, mainly through renewing debt and pre-paying existing debt, used to repurchase approximately 18 million shares outstanding, of which 9.5 million were repurchased from Artal to keep Artal's percentage ownership constant.
Earnings per share dropped 15%.
2014 Q1 Results (Source: 2013 WTW 10-K)
WTW has 60 years of history and the most known brand in weight management. Its brand image is furthered by celebrities such as Jennifer Hudson, Jessica Simpson, and Charles Barkley. WTW's customers typically have positive reviews due to the success of the program. Through the model of using past members who have lost weight with WTW as Leaders, WTW is able to use the tagline "If I can do it, you can do it too" as a way to continue to grow that customer base. By using past credibility, WTW also creates a strong barrier to entry for any new entrants in this market.
While meetings and products sales revenues have declined by approximately 10% in 2012, online sales and advertising revenue increased by 26%. Management has clearly caught on to this opportunity with the acquisition of Wello, an online fitness startup that has tremendous potential as the next mainstream app. With the recent 5.75% tax imposed on fitness centers, Wello could be in a position to disrupt the fitness market.
WTW has also selected the mobile tech guru Kony to streamline WTW's business operations on mobile platforms. This makes the existing Weight Watchers Online tool much more convenient for customers as they can book meetings and access personal process information on mobile. This also makes finding meetings much easier.
Relative to NutriSystem (NASDAQ: NTRI), which is in many ways an identical business albeit much smaller, WTW trades at 7.1x TTM earnings while NTRI trades at 60.7x TTM earnings. Even with the forecast sales decline, assuming that management does not make any advancements in the mobile and online space, WTW still holds much greater value compared to peers.
Investors would feel more confident in WTW if management is implementing foreseeable changes. However, at this point the turnaround story is vague. How management will stop the decline of meetings revenues is the central question surrounding WTW's future performance. Even with technological upgrades and product add-ons, weekly meetings are still the core driver of WTW's business.
WTW's performance in the U.K. and Europe exhibits the same decline in meetings revenue with 17.6% and 4.4%, respectively. Therefore the decline in meeting sales is not just a North American phenomenon. The global market seems to be shifting.
More threats are on the horizon as Tesco has recently launched its own dieting services with calories controlled meals. If the trend of grocery chains expanding into dieting services continues, WTW could see a decrease in market share. Although the success of Tesco has yet to been seen, due to their sheer size and channel of distribution, a decrease in WTW's product sales may follow.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071522:18
SYMBOL = GE
GE tumbled farther than any other current Dow stock during the Great Recession.
The company has not recovered from its 2008 slide with regard to stock price and other metrics as well.
However, GE is very shareholder friendly from dividend and buyback perspectives.
I put a 2015 target price of $27.30 on the shares.
The "Culture series" of sci-fi books by Iain M. Banks features spaceships that are tens of kilometers long. When I think of General Electric (NYSE:GE) I am sometimes reminded of those huge ships. The company is also massive and it takes it a long time to change direction, or recover from shocking events.
Out of the current Dow stocks, GE ranked dead last in total returns during the Great Recession period -- 29th out of 29 (Visa was not a public company at the time).
GE stock is still below the level that it attained before the recession hit as the company tries to turn the giant ship back around.
Note that in the last five years, GE stock has edged out the S&P 500:
Revenues, however, are also still well below the levels seen in 2008:
Now I will look at some important metrics for the company followed by my recommendation.
Getting Bang for the Buck
Two of the most important metrics to look at for a company are the ROE (Return on Equity) and ROA (Return on Assets) ratios. GE shows poor trends for these all-important figures.
Much like GE's revenues, the ROE and ROA ratios have been stuck in a rut since 2009 and are below what an investor would like to see in a large-cap company (ROE of 12% - 15% is considered healthy).
Dividend Growth
Like many aspects of GE, the dividend is struggling to achieve the level it was at in 2008:
Nonetheless, the growth in the dividend since 2010 (more than doubling) has been a good sign for income investors. GE currently yields 3.3%.
Valuation of the Stock
The forward P/E ratio history for GE shows that the ratio is now at about the level was before the Great Recession:
According to Yahoo Finance, the average analyst estimate of EPS growth in the next five years is 8.93%. In the past five years, GE grew EPS at an average of 11.35% annually.
Another metric I like to look at is the net common payout yield. The net common payout yield is the dividend yield plus the net buyback yield. For example, if a company with a market cap of $100 million repurchases $10 million worth of stock in the last twelve months, issues no new stock, and has a dividend yield of 3%, then the net common payout yield would be 13%.
GE Net Common Payout Yield Chart
GE Net Common Payout Yield (TTM) data by YCharts
Here GE scores above average marks. It is consistently returning about 6.5% to shareholders which I consider to be very good. A yield of 8% or more I consider to be excellent and a yield of 10% or more is exceptional (and rare to keep up for long).
Finally, I will look at the technical trend
The resistance and support lines of the wedge that GE is currently in will converge in about 6 weeks. By then, the stock will have to move - one way or another - out of the pattern that it has been in since the start of 2014.
Note the scale of the finviz graph above. GE has actually moved very little in 2014 as the range of the stock has been about $24 - $27.5 per share.
The PEG ratio is currently at 1.77 (using forward P/E, which actually lowers the PEG);
Revenue, even after the Great Recession, has trended downward;
ROE and ROA ratios are weak.
However, the stock has support due to two major factors:
The dividend yield is above average;
Buybacks continue to improve EPS.
The PEG ratio is the factor that causes me the most consternation about GE. 1.77??? That is a number that only makes sense if the company was about to have a major turnaround (think of that huge ship again) and suddenly start to show much more robust growth than anyone expects. As I noted above, the next five years' EPS growth is expected to be substantially lower than the last five years' growth.
Considering the forward P/E (near the 2007 level), I think some contraction in the P/E over the next 6-18 months is due. The stock may very well continue to be propped up by buybacks and the fairly strong dividend yield, but I do not think the stock deserves such a high forward ratio (barring exceptional news to the upside).
For my target price by end of 2015, I will use a forward P/E of 14 and a consensus 2016 EPS estimate of $1.95 per share. Multiplying 14 by 1.95 gives a target price of $27.30 per share.
It would not surprise me to see GE pop up to about $28-$30 in the short term, as the technical chart shows that it could break out to the upside. If it does, I would see that as a good selling opportunity. The long-term fundamentals don't seem to support much upside for GE.
Nonetheless, the dividend sports a high yield and should continue to grow at a good pace. For those investors who prize income above all else, the stock may be a solid pick.
Recommendation for a total return investor: Sell
Recommendation for a dividend investor: Hold
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071522:34
SYMBOL = PM
Analysts expect Philip Morris to earn $1.24/share in terms of EPS for the second quarter, even though currency issues may hinder earnings well into the first half of 2015.
Recent trend behavior could continue well into the second-half of the year, especially if Philip Morris can meet and/or exceed analysts' earnings expectations for the upcoming quarter.
If Philip Morris can increase both cigarette shipment volumes and net income while minimizing the currency-based impact it faced in Q1, exceeding Q2 estimates shouldn't be a problem.
Now that we're finding ourselves in the thick of yet another earnings season, I wanted to take a closer look at the upcoming earnings for one particular company in the tobacco sector and share my thoughts on what needs to happen in order for Philip Morris (NYSE:PM) to meet and potentially surpass analysts expectations.
Recent Trend Behavior
On Monday, shares of PM, which currently possess a market cap of $135.19 billion, a forward P/E ratio of 15.38, and a dividend yield of 4.37% ($3.76), settled at a price of $85.95/share. Based on a closing price of $85.95/share, shares of PM are trading 1.20% below their 20-day simple moving average, 0.45% below their 50-day simple moving average, and 3.37% above their 200-day simple moving average.
It should be noted that these numbers indicate a short-term downtrend and long-term uptrend for the stock, which generally translates into a selling mode for most near-term traders and a buying mode many long-term investors. If the company can demonstrate a stronger-than-expected earnings performance when it announces Q2 results on July 17, there's a very good chance the company's trend behavior will continue to move in a very positive direction.
Upcoming Earnings Outlook
When it comes to the company's upcoming Q2 earnings, there are a number of things potential investors should consider. For example, analysts are currently calling for PM to earn $1.24/share in terms of EPS (which is $0.05/share higher than what the company had reported during Q1 2014, and $0.06/share lower than what the company had reported during the year-ago period) and $7.52 billion in terms of revenue when its latest earnings are released on July 17.
One thing to keep in mind before I breakdown what I think needs to be done in order Philip Morris to meet and/or exceed estimates is the fact that currency issues are once again going to play a factor in the company's quarterly performance.
By taking the currency issue into consideration, I strongly believe that in order to meet and/or exceed its quarterly EPS estimates, a 2%-to-3% increase in the company's cigarette shipment volume versus the 4.4% decline that was demonstrated during Q1, a 1%-to-2% increase in the company's net revenues versus the 8.8% decline that was demonstrated during Q1, and lastly, a 1.1%-to-1.5% increase in the company's operating income versus the 13% decline that was demonstrated during Q1 would all need to occur.
Should investors be concerned with Philip Morris' currency related issues? Clearly they should, especially since such issues have caused the company to lower its full-year earnings estimates from $5.09/share-to-$5.19/share to $4.87/share-to-$4.97/share and subsequent earnings reports will include the verbiage "excluding unfavorable currency this segment actually did..." .
With that said, I still think full-year earnings have a slight chance of coming in at the higher end of that range ($4.93/share-to-$4.97/share) given the fact that Philip Morris made an key acquisition within the e-cigarette market that will clearly strengthen its presence in the U.K.
The acquisition of Nicocigs, is clearly an attempt to stay ahead of the game in the fast growing e-cig market. Nicocigs is Britain's largest electronic cigarette maker, and dominates over 27% of the U.K. Marketplace, which in my opinion could help boost both full-year earnings and revenues.
A Look At Big Tobacco's Latest Mega-Merger
After noting Philip Morris' most recent acquisition, I think its best that we briefly discuss the $27.4 billion dollar mega-merger between Reynolds American (NYSE:RAI) and Lorillard (NYSE:LO) and how the transaction will impact the landscape and market share of the industry as well as potential for regulatory intervention.
Landscape: The landscape of the remaining U.S.-based "Big Tobacco" players shrinks from three (Altria Group (NYSE:MO), Reynolds American, and Lorillard) to just two (Altria Group and Reynolds American).
Market Share: Once the deal is approved, the market share of U.S. cigarette sector will clearly change. Upon its completion, Altria Group will control about 51% of the market share, the new Reynolds entity will control about 42%, and the remaining 7% will consists of a combination of small name brands and foreign-based entities.
Regulatory Intervention: The one thing a transaction of this size does is increase the potential for regulatory scrutiny. Although none of us can be certain whether or not the FDA will step-in, we do know that menthol cigarettes are both a hot-button issue for the FDA and one of the leading catalysts behind Lorillard's annual sales growth.
With that said, Charles Lewis Sizemore recently mentioned that he thinks, "Reynolds is effectively making a $27.4 billion bet that the FDA will leave menthol cigarettes alone. That seems reckless to me; it's a bet with modest upside and a potentially disastrous downside".
In this instance, I'll need to agree with Mr. Sizemore and say that regulatory intervention is almost inevitable, and that plays such as Philip Morris are more attractive considering the fact that they are far less exposed to menthol cigarettes.
Conclusion
For those of you who may be considering a position in Philip Morris, I'd actually look to keep a closer eye on the company's currency concerns and their impact on overall performance over the next 6-12 months as any improvement in this area could positively impact the company's long-term earnings growth.
In terms of the company's upcoming quarter, steady increases of at least 2%-to-3% in terms of the company's cigarette shipping volumes as well as a 2%-3% increase in net revenues could help Philip Morris stay on course to meet or even surpass analysts' expectations when it announces earnings on July 17.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071522:36
SYMBOL = DE
Deere has spent nearly $6 billion on stock buybacks in the last 14 quarters.
In addition to cutting back the outstanding shares, the company has avoided paying dividends of over $244 million over that time.
I will discuss how good (or bad) the return on investment has been for the buybacks.
Introduction
In the following article, I will discuss the share buyback strategy of Deere & Company (NYSE:DE) over the last 14 quarters.
Rather than repeat the introduction of my previous article in which I discuss General Electric, I invite the reader to read the intro to that last article for the reasoning behind why the buyback ROI is important. Also, here is a link to another article that details the math behind the calculations in more detail than I give below.
Deere's Recent Buybacks
Deere has been active in buybacks over the last 14 quarters - reducing the number of outstanding shares by over 10%. Here is a graph of the outstanding shares that shows how the company ramped up its buybacks at the end of 2010:
DE spent about $5.88 billion over the last 14 quarters on stock, and the value of those shares as of Q2 2014 was about $6.32 billion. That equates to a total gain of about 7.5%, but does not tell us the annualized gain of either the shares themselves nor the $244.8 million in dividend payouts saved during that time. To get a figure that is meaningful, we need to do the slightly painful calculation of the Buyback ROI.
Looking at the last 14 quarters reveals the following history:
The following steps are taken to determine the Buyback ROI:
For each quarter, multiply the shares bought by the avg. price = amount spent.
Multiply the cumulative shares bought by the dividend paid that quarter=dividend payout saved.
Add the dividend payout saved to the amount spent=cash inflow (or outflow) for the quarter.
Repeat steps 1-3 for the 14-quarter analysis.
For the last quarter, multiply the cumulative shares purchased by the final quarter share price, and add that number into the cash inflow (or outflow) for the quarter. This is the final value of all the shares the company purchased.
Finally, all of the 14 calculated cash inflows (or outflows) are run through an internal rate of return calculation to produce the Buyback ROI figure.
For DE, in the last 14 quarters, the Buyback ROI was a decent 7.7%.
By comparing the Buyback ROI to the "Buyback Strategy" and to the "Buyback Effectiveness," we can how well the company picked the exact timing of the buybacks it made. The article that I linked above uses those two terms to mean the following:
Buyback Strategy: The CAGR of the total return of the stock during the time of the analysis. This can be thought of as the "baseline" ROI number that the buyback would have achieved if the stock had no peaks or valleys. In other words, if the stock simply moved in a straight line, this would be identical to the Buyback ROI.
Buyback Effectiveness: A comparison of the actual Buyback ROI to the Buyback Strategy: (1 + Buyback ROI) / (1 + Buyback Strategy) - 1. If a company has a positive Buyback Effectiveness, then it did a good job buying on the dips and avoiding the peaks. Think of this number as a scorecard measuring the short-term trading ability of the company.
Our final figures are as follows:
There are many other factors of buybacks to consider whenever evaluating any company. Does the company use a lot of stock options to pay employees? Are the buybacks used as a desperate measure to bump up EPS for a business that has slow growth? The list of pros and cons for buybacks is long and eminently debatable. Those are important, but are beyond the scope of this article.
The main priority of a company buyback should be to get a return on investment that is better than other options for the funds. Buying back stock when it is undervalued is an excellent use of cash (or even low-cost debt, up to a point). Deere perhaps earns a grade of "C" on its buybacks over the last 14 quarters.
Deere has nearly $8 billion of stock remaining to be purchased under the current repurchase plan, so we are sure to see a high level of buybacks going forward. As a (recent) shareholder, I do believe the shares to be undervalued (see my article about valuation) and I think within 1-2 years we will see that the Buyback ROI will be higher than 7.7%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071522:40
SYMBOL = AAPL
Tim Cook and company worked out what was once an unthinkable alliance that will help Apple expand its customer base.
Although it will involve many cross-promotional opportunities, Apple has more to gain than IBM.
As for IBM, the deal adds to a mobile software/services push that has already resulted in a string of acquisitions and product launches.
Victor Hugo was right when he wrote, "There's nothing more powerful than an idea whose time has arrived."
In my article last month, I opined that Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) is a company with a much higher upside stock price potential than most imagined. There are many drivers to Apple's growth potential, and on July 15 we learned of a new one.
Apple and International Business Machines (NYSE:IBM) announced that they'll cooperate with an agreement to create simple-to-use business apps and sell iPhones and iPads to Big Blue's corporate customers.
In an interview and photo-op, Apple CEO Tim Cook and IBM CEO Ginny Rometty launched a new era of cooperation between what was formerly a bitter rivalry.
"In '84, we were competitors. In 2014, I don't think you can find two more complementary companies," said Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook in the joint interview. "This is a really landmark deal."
The two companies said they'll leverage the expertise of IBM's consultants and relationships with corporate customers to create business apps that offer them simplicity. That is a hallmark of Apple products and their consumer apps.
The apps will draw on IBM's computing services such as security, device management and big-data analytics. Under the agreement, IBM's employees will provide on-site support and service of Apple products inside companies.
Some key points from a Seeking Alpha summary included:
Apple, which maintains an outsized share of enterprise mobile hardware activations, has tried hard to grow its business footprint during the Tim Cook era. Aside from any value provided by the new apps/services, Big Blue's credibility and relationships with Global 2000 firms should provide a shot in the arm for Apple's efforts.
As for IBM, the deal adds to a mobile software/services push that has already resulted in a string of acquisitions and product launches.
The apps will begin to arrive this fall, and IBM will resell iPhones/iPads containing them to clients worldwide.
The companies also plan to develop IBM cloud services optimized for iOS. Targeted markets include security, mobile device management (MDM), and big data/analytics. New enterprise-focused AppleCare services will be offered, as will "new packaged offerings from IBM for device activation, supply and management."
Apple is likely to see more immediate benefits by breaking into the enormous business market in a bold new way. The company is likely to expand both sales growth and earnings by the added credibility afforded by the alliance.
IBM is also a big beneficiary. Apple's legendary culture and sterling reputation should add great appeal to its global client base. It's like the best of both worlds for Big Blue and should increase sales of its mobile software products and services.
As I recently wrote concerning IBM's struggles for respect and credibility with investors:
"Few predicted after shares of Apple fell over 40% by mid-2013 that activist investors would pressure management and the stock would recover almost all the loses by June 2014.
"Apple had Tim Cook to guide Apple's turnaround. IBM has Rometty, a 33-year IBM veteran who knows her company like no one else."
"We're a $100 billion ship that's going to turn," she said recently. Rometty speaks to many business leaders and CEO clients, and she claims all are interested in IBM's emphasis on cloud computing, flash storage systems, and efforts to participate in the mobile communications tsunami.
The CEO said IBM's clients "are interested in cloud, to a certain degree. But what they are really interested in is the data and analytics piece. That's going to change how they operate and what they can do."
This landmark deal will galvanize Big Blue's ability to do just that for both old and new clients. This is a game-changing transformational moment for both IBM and Apple.
My 18-month price target for Apple remains at $150. With this deal, it may happen within 12 months.
With my calculated estimates for 10% additional revenue and earnings that IBM should glean from the deal during the coming 12 months, its shares are likely to recapture the 52-week high of nearly $201.
As investors gain confidence in IBM's reconfiguration and association with Apple, my 18-month momentum-driven target price of $220 will be the next upside surprise. IBM has found its mojo, and the profits from the Apple transaction will be exponential.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010702:06
SYMBOL = VZ
We first looked at the bond market perspective on Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) on September 10, 2013. Just today, T-Mobile US, Inc. (NYSE:TMUS) agreed to pay Verizon Communications Inc. $2.365 billion in a "spectrum swap" as the major service providers battle for market share in the United States. Verizon Communications Inc. agreed on September 2, 2013 to buy out the Vodafone Group PLC (NASDAQ:VOD) interest in the company's U.S. wireless business. At that time, the marketing process for a Verizon Communications Inc. bond issue estimated at $25 billion was underway. In this note we re-examine the risk and return trade-off for the bonds of Verizon Communications Inc. Today's study incorporates Verizon Communications Inc. bond price data as of January 3, 2014. A total of 255 trades were analyzed on 22 fixed-rate non-call bond issues of Verizon Communications Inc. with trading volume of $96.3 million. We omitted data on one bond issue for which reported trade information was obviously in error. We leave for another day an analysis of spread on the bonds of various regional subsidiaries of Verizon Communications Inc.
We reach two important conclusions. First, we again believe that Verizon Communications Inc. would be judged "investment grade" by a majority of analysts. Our second conclusion is the opposite of our judgment in September. From an investor value perspective, we look at the ratio of credit spread to default probability. By this measure, Verizon Communications Inc. bonds now offer below average value, compared to the above-average value indicated by market prices in September. We explain our conclusions in what follows.
Verizon Communications Inc. Analysis
Assuming the recovery rate in the event of default would be the same on all bond issues, a sophisticated investor who has moved beyond legacy ratings seeks to maximize revenue per basis point of default risk from each incremental investment, subject to risk limits on macro-factor exposure on a fully default-adjusted basis. In this note, we analyze the maturities where the credit spread/default probability ratio is highest for Verizon Communications Inc. We also assess the likelihood that a sophisticated analyst would define Verizon Communications Inc. as "investment grade" in light of the revised definition of that term triggered by the Dodd-Frank legislation defined below.
Term Structure of Default Probabilities
Maximizing the ratio of credit spread to matched-maturity default probabilities requires that default probabilities be available at a wide range of maturities. The graph below shows the current default probabilities for Verizon Communications Inc. ranging from one month to 10 years on an annualized basis. We also display the default probabilities for September 9, 2013 used in our prior analysis. For maturities longer than ten years, we assume that the ten year default probability is a good estimate of default risk. The default probabilities range from 0.06% at one month (unchanged from September) to 0.03% at 1 year (down 0.01% from September) and 0.43% at ten years (up 0.03% from September). The green line represents the current default probabilities and the yellow line graphs the September 9 values.
We explain the source and methodology for the default probabilities below.
Summary of Recent Bond Trading Activity
The National Association of Securities Dealers launched the TRACE (Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine) in July 2002 in order to increase price transparency in the U.S. corporate debt market. The system captures information on secondary market transactions in publicly traded securities (investment grade, high yield and convertible corporate debt) representing all over-the-counter market activity in these bonds. We used the bond data mentioned above for the Verizon Communications Inc. fixed rate non-call bond issues.
The graph below shows 6 different yield curves that are relevant to a risk and return analysis of Verizon Communications Inc. bonds. These curves reflect the noise in the TRACE data, as some of the trades are small odd-lot trades. The lowest curve, in dark blue, is the yield to maturity on U.S. Treasury bonds, interpolated from the Federal Reserve H15 statistical release for that day, which matches the maturity of the traded bonds of Verizon Communications Inc. The second lowest curve, in the lighter blue, shows the yields that would prevail if investors shared the default probability views outlined above, assumed that recovery in the event of default would be zero, and demanded no liquidity premium above and beyond the default-adjusted risk-free yield. The third line from the bottom (the orange dots) graphs the lowest yield reported by TRACE on that day on Verizon Communications Inc. bonds. The fourth line from the bottom (the green dots) displays the average yield reported by TRACE on the same day. The highest yield (the red dots) is obviously the maximum yield in each Verizon Communications Inc. issue recorded by TRACE. The black line and black dots represent the best fitting Verizon Communications Inc. bond yields on a trade-weighted basis.
The liquidity premium built into the yields of Verizon Communications Inc. above and beyond the "default-adjusted risk free curve" (the risk-free yield curve plus the matched maturity default probabilities for the firm) generally widens as the maturity of the underlying bonds increases.
The high, low and average credit spreads at each maturity are graphed below. Again, we see credit spreads are generally increasing with the maturity of the bonds. We have done nothing to smooth the data reported by TRACE, which includes both large lot and small lot bond trades. For the reader's convenience, we fitted a trade volume-weighted cubic polynomial that explains the average spread as a function of years to maturity. This polynomial explains 98.7% of the variation in the average credit spread over the maturity term structure:
Using default probabilities in addition to credit spreads, we can analyze the number of basis points of credit spread per basis point of default risk at each maturity. This ratio of spread to default probability is shown in the following table for Verizon Communications Inc. For maturities under 3 years, the average credit spread to default probability ratio is 3 to 10 times. The ratio of average credit spread to default probability decreases beyond that, generally ranging between 1.8 and 3.8 times. This reward to risk ratio has been cut in half since the September analysis. The drop in the credit spread to default probability ratio has taken Verizon Communications Inc. bonds from "above average" to below average compared to other bonds in the market place.
The reward to risk ratios reported in September are reproduced here:
The credit spread to default probability ratios are shown in graphic form here.
The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation reports weekly on new credit default swap trading volume by reference name. For the week ended December 27, 2013 (the most recent week for which data is available), the credit default swap trading volume on Verizon Communications Inc. was 8 trades with $91.5 million of notional principal. The number of credit default swap contracts traded on Verizon Communications Inc. in the 155 weeks ended June 28, 2013 is summarized in the following table:
Verizon Communications Inc. ranked 161st among all reference names in weekly credit default swap trading volume during this period, which is graphed below:
On a cumulative basis, the default probabilities for Verizon Communications Inc. range from 0.03% at 1 year (down 0.01% from September, shown in yellow) to 4.24%% at 10 years (up 0.35% since September).
Over the last decade, the 1 year and 5 year default probabilities for Verizon Communications Inc. have been volatile, but neither the 1 year default probability nor the 5 year default probability have exceeded 0.60% in the last decade. (click to enlarge)
In contrast to the daily movements in default probabilities graphed above, the legacy credit ratings, those reported by credit rating agencies like McGraw-Hill unit Standard & Poor's and Moody's, for Verizon Communications Inc. have changed only three times during the decade, somewhat more slowly than the median 815 days since the last rating change for rated companies found in a recent study by Kamakura Corporation.
The macro-economic factors driving the historical movements in the default probabilities of Verizon Communications Inc. have been derived using historical data beginning in January 1990. A key assumption of such analysis, like any econometric time series study, is that the business risks of the firm being studied are relatively unchanged during this period. With that caveat, the historical analysis shows that Verizon Communications Inc. default risk responds to changes in the following factors among those listed by the Federal Reserve in its 2014 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review:
10 year U.S. Treasury yields
Home price index
These macro factors explain 26.7% of the variation in the default probability of Verizon Communications Inc. The remaining volatility is the idiosyncratic risk of Verizon Communications Inc. as it battles for market share in the United States.
Verizon Communications Inc. can be compared with its peers in the same industry sector, as defined by Morgan Stanley and reported by Compustat. For the USA "telecom services" sector, Verizon Communications Inc. has the following percentile ranking for its default probabilities among its 65 peers at these maturities:
The percentile ranking of Verizon Communications Inc. default probabilities at three years through ten years is in safest decile of the peer group. Taking another view, both the actual and statistically predicted Verizon Communications Inc. credit ratings are "investment grade" by traditional credit rating standards of Moody's Investors Service and the Standard & Poor's affiliate of McGraw-Hill. The statistically predicted rating is one notch above the legacy rating.
Conclusions
Before making an assessment of whether or not Verizon Communications is "investment grade" as redefined by Dodd-Frank, we look at the market's perspective.
Credit spreads for Verizon Communications Inc. are plotted here versus traded credit spreads on January 3 in the "technology, media and telecommunications" sector.
The good news from a credit risk perspective is that Verizon Communications Inc. credit spreads are at or below peer levels. We discuss what that means from an investor value perspective below.
The next graph plots Verizon Communications Inc. matched-maturity default probabilities versus matched-maturity default probabilities on bonds traded on January 3, 2014 in the same industry sector.
By this measure, the default probabilities for Verizon Communications Inc. are approximately equal to the traded peer group on January 3, 2014. Note the contrast with the percentile ranks given above. What this means is that the best credits in the sector are being traded and the weaker credits are not traded, because Verizon's percentile rank is much lower among the traded peers.
We now compare the credit spreads on Verizon Communications Inc. versus the credit spreads of investment grade firms in all industry sectors whose bonds were traded on January 3, 2014. We show that comparison here:
Verizon Communications Inc. credit spreads are slightly below the median for investment grade bonds traded on January 3, 2014 for short maturities and near the median at longer maturities. The next chart makes the same comparison for default probabilities for Verizon Communications Inc. versus investment grade firms whose bonds traded on January 3, 2014:
This graph again makes it clear that the investment grade firms that were traded on January 3, 2014 are a stronger group that the full investment grade peer group. By this comparison, Verizon Communications Inc. default probabilities are at or above the median.
In light of this data, we believe the overwhelming majority of analysts would rate Verizon Communications Inc. as investment grade. This conclusion is unchanged from September. From an investor value perspective, however, our conclusions have changed significantly. We measure value by the ratio of credit spread to default probability. In September, in the midst of the very large Verizon bond issue, Verizon Communications Inc. bonds offered better than average value, as summarized by the spread to default ratios shown in the chart reproduced above. As of January 3, 2014, however, spreads have tightened and long term default probabilities have risen on Verizon Communications Inc. bonds. Investors seeking to maximize the ratio of credit spread to default probabilities on their bond investments can now easily find better value in the bonds of other issuers.
Regular readers of these notes are aware that we generally do not list the major news headlines relevant to the firm in question. We believe that other authors on Seeking Alpha, Yahoo, at The New York Times, The Financial Times, and the Wall Street Journal do a fine job of this. Our omission of those headlines is intentional. Similarly, to argue that a specific news event is more important than all other news events in the outlook for the firm is something we again believe is inappropriate for this author. Our focus is on current bond prices, credit spreads, and default probabilities, key statistics that we feel are critical for both fixed income and equity investors.
Background on Default Probabilities Used
The Kamakura Risk Information Services version 5.0 Jarrow-Chava reduced form default probability model makes default predictions using a sophisticated combination of financial ratios, stock price history, and macro-economic factors. The version 5.0 model was estimated over the period from 1990 to 2008, and includes the insights of the worst part of the recent credit crisis. Kamakura default probabilities are based on 1.76 million observations and more than 2000 defaults. The term structure of default is constructed by using a related series of econometric relationships estimated on this data base. An overview of the full suite of related default probability models is available here.
General Background on Reduced Form Models
For a general introduction to reduced form credit models, Hilscher, Jarrow and van Deventer (2008) is a good place to begin. Hilscher and Wilson (2013) have shown that reduced form default probabilities are more accurate than legacy credit ratings by a substantial amount. Van Deventer (2012) explains the benefits and the process for replacing legacy credit ratings with reduced form default probabilities in the credit risk management process. The theoretical basis for reduced form credit models was established by Jarrow and Turnbull (1995) and extended by Jarrow (2001). Shumway (2001) was one of the first researchers to employ logistic regression to estimate reduced form default probabilities. Chava and Jarrow (2004) applied logistic regression to a monthly database of public firms. Campbell, Hilscher and Szilagyi (2008) demonstrated that the reduced form approach to default modeling was substantially more accurate than the Merton model of risky debt. Bharath and Shumway (2008), working completely independently, reached the same conclusions. A follow-on paper by Campbell, Hilscher and Szilagyi (2011) confirmed their earlier conclusions in a paper that was awarded the Markowitz Prize for best paper in the Journal of Investment Management by a judging panel that included Prof. Robert Merton.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010702:11
SYMBOL = TWTR
Twitter (NYSE:TWTR), is a social networking and micro blogging service in which users can send messages instantly. Twitter officially priced their IPO at $26 per share after raising it many times leading up to the IPO date. When Twitter debuted to the public on November 7th, shares opened trading at $45.10 per share and traded as high as $50 on opening day. In less than two months, the stock has risen over 165% since the offering. Twitter managed to raise $1.8 billion in capital by selling 70 million shares which gave it a market cap of 14.2 billion, well below today's market cap of $38.3 billion. Why would a company IPO at 14.2 billion if they felt they were worth more almost 3 times as much? The answer is they simply would not. According to estimize data Twitter is projected to have 2014 revenues of $1.05 to 1.1 billion which means they are trading at 36 times projected 2014 revenues. This is extremely high compared to its social media counterpart Facebook (NASDAQ:FB) which is trading at 16 times its estimated 2014 revenues and LinkedIn (NYSE:LNKD) at less than 11 times estimated 2014 sales.
Despite having strong revenue growth of close to over the past 2 years from $41.21 million in FQ4 '11 to $168.58 million in FQ3 '13 they are not making any profits as its EPS has remained flat at a 3-cent loss per share. Twitter was a much better investment at the IPO price of $26, which valued the company at 14x projected 2014 revenues, which is in line with other social media stocks like Facebook and LinkedIn. At $69 Twitter is a very poor investment. Twitter's huge rise in price since its public offering is being driven by optimism in the markets as opposed to realistic and intrinsic value. For the price of Twitter to jump from $14 billion at the time of its offering, to a $38 billion price tag in a matter of weeks, a person thinking of buying Twitter shares at this price has to determine whether they truly think it is fairly valued at this level or whether there chasing gains.
Twitter has an extremely small float of just 70 million shares. To demonstrate just how small it is Twitter traded 33.25 million shares on Friday, which is almost half of all currently available shares to be traded. This is the reason Twitter is experiencing such volatile swings in its share price. With the first round of additional shares able to be sold coming up February 15th this should help increase supply and stabilize the volatility. Twitter faces upcoming dilution in the coming years as well. The prospectus shows, there are 544.7 million shares currently, but with all the options, warrants and restricted stock that employees have been given, Twitter's share count will easily increase to 700 million in the next few years. The dilution created by the additional shares would hurt the fundamentals as well as their EPS. Another risk investors face is the likelihood of Twitter selling more shares to the public in the coming year considering only 13% of its shares are available to the public. This means that selling more shares to the public at a price closer to the IPO, and significantly less than its current trading price, will also be seen as negative and would lead to a reality check of its current trading price.
In the same report Twitter stated, "We have a limited operating history in a new and unproven market for our platform, which ... may increase the risk that we will not be successful." They also stated in the prospectus, "We may not be able to achieve or subsequently maintain profitability". Twitter since its inception has incurred significant operating losses of $483.2 million despite rising revenue. With that being said, Twitter will soon become a 'hot potato' and you certainly don't want to be the last one holding stock when the game is over. It's not a question of if it is over valued at $69. The real question is when will it begin to sell off?
Twitter put in a potential double top near $71 on December 27th and it served as resistance for Friday's trading session. The price pushed up near $71 in the morning session and got sold off from there the rest of the day. If TWTR does not manage to break above $71 in the coming days it will confirm the double top on the daily chart and provide the opportunity for a significant reversal.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010703:20
SYMBOL = AFL
Aflac Incorporated (NYSE:AFL) is the world's largest underwriter of supplemental cancer insurance. Aflac also sells life, health, Medicare supplement, accident and long-term convalescent care policies. Aflac, founded by 3 brothers in 1955, gives more than 50 million people peace of mind that they will receive financial assistance in the case of illness or a serious accident.
Aflac operates in Japan and the United States. In 2012, Japan operations accounted for 80% of company profits. Most of this was driven by medical, cancer and life insurance products. Aflac is the number one insurance company in Japan in terms of policies in force. About one in every four households in Japan currently has an insurance policy with Aflac.
Outstanding Historical Operating Results
Over the past decade, Aflac has had absolutely outstanding operating results. The company has managed to grow net profits at a compound annual growth rate of just over 11%.
They have managed to grow total income by a compounded annual growth rate of 7.5% which includes income from policy premiums and investment income.
More importantly for investors, earnings per share compound annual growth rate over the past decade has been just under 12.5%. For an individual investor, EPS represents their allocated portion of profits for each share owned. This is the biggest driving factor of wealth created by owning stock in a company.
Aflac has managed to have such wonderful operating results despite headwinds from the largest financial crisis in recent history beginning in 2008.
Take a minute to admire the beauty of those figures. Look how almost every year (with the exception of 2008 and 2011) the company has been able to grow their profits from previous year's results. This is a feature demonstrated in the best companies. Companies that investors should want to own should be doing this almost year in year out with few exceptions.
A Dividend History to Make the Duck Proud
The Aflac duck campaign focuses on letting potential consumers know that Aflac will be there in your time of need providing you an income if you shall become injured or ill.
Well, for investors, Aflac is also very reliable when it comes to income. Aflac boasts a 3 plus decade long dividend streak. The company has been paying out annually increasing dividends to shareholders for the past 31 years.
Over the past decade, Aflac has grown their dividend distribution to shareholders by a compound annual growth rate of 16.82%. Most recently, Aflac announced a dividend increase of 5.7%, which though lower than historical increases, the raise still keeps investor income ahead of inflation.
It should be noted that Aflac showed their commitment to dividend growth by continuing their streak through the financial crisis of 2008.
Such a high dividend growth rate might worry potential investors that future dividend increases could decrease. However, there is plenty of room for Aflac management to keep growing dividends as they only pay out roughly 20% of earnings to shareholders through dividends.
Currently, Aflac boasts a dividend yield of 2.25%. While income investors may prefer a higher starting yield, they can be sure that their income from Aflac stock will increase going forward.
Increasing Shareholder Value
If consistent EPS and dividend growth aren't enough to get you excited, take a look at Aflac's commitment to reduce outstanding share count.
Over the past decade, Aflac has made a strong effort to reduce outstanding shares thus increasing each remaining shares value. From 2002 to 2012, Aflac management decreased outstanding shares by almost 10%. Recently, Aflac announced authorization for management to purchase and retire another 40 million shares.
Each share that is retired by Aflac means that each remaining share is worth a bigger portion of the company. Retiring outstanding shares is one way for a company to return value back to shareholders along with dividend payments.
One of the Best-Valued Company Currently Available
Currently, Aflac offers one of the best valuations available in the stock market. Not many companies offer such consistent, reliable and positive operating results as Aflac over many years. Most companies with such outstanding operating results are currently trading with P/E multiples of 20 or higher.
Aflac is currently trading at a P/E of just over 10. This gives the stock a current earnings yield of 9.9%. Compare this earnings yield with the long term U.S. treasury yield of 3.75%.
Looking over Aflac's historical P/E, they have an average P/E of 14.4 over the past decade. However, Aflac has been trading at a much lower valuation since the financial crisis of 2008 due to stock investors placing a higher risk perception for financial companies.
At this time, investors can get Aflac at a great value compared to many other solid blue chip companies. Investors could currently pay roughly 10 for each $1 in earnings for Aflac. Compare that to roughly $21 for each $1 in profits from Coca-Cola Company (NYSE:KO), $17 for each $1 profits from McDonald's (NYSE:MCD) or $15 for each $1 profits from Wal-Mart (NYSE:WMT). Compared to some of the most solid dividend growth companies, Aflac currently offers a great value.
Currency Conversion Effects
While I'm definitely positive on Aflac, I'm not naive enough to believe all is roses for this company.
Due to the majority of Aflac's profits coming from Japan, the company's stock is influenced by the Japanese Yen valuation compared to the U.S. Dollar. A weaker Japanese Yen has a heavy downward effect on Aflac's financial results causing shareholders to be cautious.
Other Positive Drivers of Aflac
Driving Aflac forward, the company has recently released a new medical insurance product aimed to appeal to younger customers in Japan. This new product, along with an agreement to sell cancer policies through Japanese post offices should lead to higher premium incomes in the near future. By selling policies through Japanese post offices, Aflac could add up to 20,000 new sales points for their products.
With an improving economy, the idea that supplemental insurance is a good idea will continue to grow in both Japan and the United States. Look for Aflac to continue growing profits going forward much like it has been doing since the company's start in 1955.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010703:09
SYMBOL = LINE
Linn Energy (NASDAQ:LINE) has always been one of the more interesting upstream MLPs. The company had a very rough 2013, largely thanks to difficulties related to its merger with Berry Petroleum (BRY) and several short-seller attacks. However, Linn Energy seems to be finally bouncing back, with the stock up nearly 20% over the last 3 months. This can be explained by several factors including higher energy prices, the completion of the Berry Merger, and positive Q4 2013 production guidance. Linn Energy offers a meaningful high monthly distribution of $0.2416 per month and yields about 9.35%.
Q4 saw much higher prices for natural gas and NGLs
During Q4 2013 natural gas prices were on fire with prices up nearly 35% from last quarter and 80% from year-ago levels. The causes for this spike seem to be related to seasonally cold weather and dwindling stockpiles. According to the EIA, natural gas inventories are 16% below year-ago levels and 9% below their 5-year averages. While natural gas has given back some of its gains recently, prices still remain well above the crucial $4.00 per MCF level.
Coupled with the increase in natural gas prices, NGLs, or natural gas liquids, have also seen their prices recover. Recent data points towards NGLs prices breaching $35.00 per BBL in some areas, up 10% to 20% from prior quarter levels. However, depending on the source, realized prices may be much lower.
What impact will higher natural gas prices have on Linn Energy and its bottom line
Linn Energy is very reliant on natural gas and NGLs as they make up a huge part of its production. YTD, natural gas constitutes nearly 55% while NGLs constitutes another 20% of production for a total of 75%. However, natural gas and NGLs revenues only make up about 40% of Linn Energy's total revenues. This leaves plenty of room for improvement.
The company has already provided production guidance for Q4, estimating production to come in between 840 MMCFE/D and 860 MMCFE/D while DCF was expected to exceed distributions by 5% to 10%. When using the midpoint for the production guidance and assuming a similar mix between natural gas, NGLs, and oil, higher prices for natural gas should have a major impact on Linn Energy's Q4 results.
I estimate that Linn Energy's realized price for natural gas could increase by as much as 10% to about $3.90 per MCF. This would result in a $12.5M to $15M increase to revenues. In addition, Linn Energy's average realized price for NGLs price per BBL could reach as high as $35.00 per BBL. This would represent another $8M increase to Linn Energy's revenues.
The wildcard here are realized prices for crude oil as prices for that commodity were volatile during the quarter. Assuming flat quarter-to-quarter oil prices and operating costs, Linn Energy may see a benefit of as much as 2% to its margins per MCFE.
How much would these increased revenues and margins impact Linn Energy's bottom line? It is difficult to tell due to Linn Energy's extensive use of hedges. However, I think it is safe to assume that Linn Energy's Q4 2013 DCF guidance may come in towards the high-end of the range. In fact, Linn Energy's coverage ratio may actually exceed 1.10x.
***Do note that none of these estimates include any of the potential impact from the Berry merger.
Hedges may limit the upside
While I hate to be a downer, Linn Energy's upside is greatly limited by its hedging policy. The company hedges nearly all of its expected oil and natural gas production. However, there is one product the company does not hedge, namely NGLs. A sizable increase in NGLs prices will have a much bigger impact than a similarly sized increase in natural gas prices.
As I noted above, NGLs prices have been improving recently. However, they are still way off their 2012 to Q1 2013 levels. There is also the issue of ethane rejection, which has crippled Linn Energy's NGLs production this year. Pricing for this product remains very volatile. I suspect that Linn Energy may continue to face this issue at least until demand for the product matches supply.
Conclusion
I suspect Linn Energy's Q4 results to surprise many. The company is likely to post record production and see its critical DCF coverage ratio improve. The company will also see some added stability with the addition of Berry's assets. Berry's production is mostly oil and is often priced at Brent. While Linn Energy did likely overpay for Berry, the completion of the merger should be seen as a net positive for the company.
Linn Energy along with its dividend paying sister stock LinnCo (NASDAQ:LNCO) remain an interesting choice. The company is likely the cheapest and most undervalued in the upstream MLP sector. However, Linn Energy also seems to carry more risk than its peers, as seen by its volatile unit price.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010704:07
SYMBOL = BCOV
On Monday, Brightcove announced they have entered into a definitive agreement to acquire privately held Unicorn Media at a deal valued around $49M. Unicorn will do between $8-$9M in revenue for 2014, so they are getting a valuation of about 6x 2014 revenue, on a business expected to lose $12M next year. The deal consists of approximately 2.9M shares of Brightcove stock and approximately $9M of cash and is expected to close sometime this quarter. Brightcove is also paying approximately $2M to certain Unicorn employees as part of a multi-year retention plan and has announced that as part of the acquisition, five Unicorn Media executives will have senior leadership positions at Brightcove.
While this deal makes sense from a technology integration point of view, Unicorn is losing a lot of money. The company did about $5M in revenue for 2013 and expects to grow that to between $8-$9M in 2014. The problem with the business is that Brightcove says that Unicorn will lose between $11M-$12M in 2014, which is a lot to lose on such small revenue. As part of this announcement, Brightcove has also announced preliminary fourth quarter and yearly revenue. Total revenue for the company in 2014 is expected to be $126M-$130M and they expect to lose $9M-$12M for the year.
Brightcove had been telling Wall Street they were going to end 2013 as a profitable company, but now they don't even expect to be profitable in 2014. Wall Street was expecting Brightcove to be profitable this year, so naturally they aren't liking this news and Brightcove's stock closed down $2.98 a share, losing 20% of their value. Earlier in the day it was down 26% on the news. While Brightcove might have shown slight profitability for 2013 if they had not done the Unicorn acquisition, revenue growth would have been lower than expected. Brightcove's rate of growth is slowing with their 2014 projected revenue putting the growth of their business at about 10% for 2014.
For those not familiar with Unicorn Media, the company sells a cloud based platform called Unicorn Once. It allows premium content owners to easily take one piece of video and deliver it to multiple screens and platforms and dynamically insert ads for VOD and live streams. The company's CEO, founder and largest shareholder is Bill Rinehart, who formerly was the founding CEO at Limelight Networks (NASDAQ:LLNW) and their CTO, AJ McGowan was also from Limelight Networks where he served as Director of Solutions Engineering. Customers I know who use Unicorn's platform have spoken highly about it and Unicorn gets very high marks when it comes to support and service, but like all vendors in this particular segment of the market, Unicorn has had trouble scaling their business.
The company was founded in 2007 and six years later only grew revenue to $5M in 2013. For all the talk of online video advertising, companies offering ad insertion services and platforms for premium content owners haven't had much success in becoming profitable and/or scaling their business. The market for these services, while very crucial to content owners, is too small and will stay so for a very long time. While Unicorn is tiny, even the two largest vendors in this market, Brightcove and Ooyala, have raised almost $275M to date but still aren't profitable. It takes far too much money to scale an online video platform business, especially when these vendors still get a large percentage of their revenue from the re-sale of CDN bandwidth and not from cloud platform services. Once companies in this sector grow to around the $100M mark, it gets very hard for them to grow their business at the rate they are accustomed to.
It also doesn't help that vendors continue to set expectations in this market that aren't realistic, which Brightcove seems to have a habit of doing. I get that they are excited about the market they are in, I am too. Having passion is a good thing. But you have to temper that passion with setting the proper expectations in the market and being realistic. Brightcove made this mistake when in their S-1 filing they said the "total potential market opportunity was approximately $2.3 billion in 2011, growing to approximately $5.8 billion in 2015″. And I cringed when I read yesterday's press release that quoted a high-level, generic research on the online video ad market saying, "the online video advertising market represented $10.4 billion U.S. dollars in worldwide spending in 2013, with spending expected to grow to $16.8 billion by 2015." Using these numbers, the size of the market Brightcove is going after is more than $13B, which means for 2013, Brightcove would not have even captured one half of one percent of the market. Yet, they have the most revenue of any other vendor. So how can the market be as big as these numbers say? It can't. Again, I get the excitement some vendors have for what they are doing, Brightcove included, but set the right expectations.
Unicorn Media does have some unique intellectual property as they have been issued 14 U.S. patents and 7 international ones with 20 additional patents pending. Maybe that would explain why Brightcove gave them the high valuation they did, but patents are only worth something if you can enforce them. It takes a lot of effort and money to enforce patents and I don't see that being a business Brightcove is looking to get into, patent enforcement and/or licensing. As part of the deal, Unicorn's CTO will be become the new CTO of Brightcove and Unicorn's CEO will become SVP, Market Development for Media, which is a new group Brightcove has created inside the company to, "define and bring to market focused solutions that help media companies increase their revenue and decrease costs." How this goal is any different from what Brightcove is, and has already been doing for years with media companies, is not clear to me.
As with any deal like this where a lot of technical integration needs to be done between multiple platforms, the success of this deal is going to be judged on how well both companies combine what they have. Based on what needs to take place, the companies have a lot of work cut out for themselves. Rather than me try to explain it, here's what the CEO of Brightcove said in a blog post, "We plan to integrate Once technologies with future versions of Brightcove Video Cloud and Brightcove Zencoder. Over time, Video.js and other Brightcove Web players and native player SDKs will integrate with OnceUX technologies to support instrumented playback of Once streams. In a similar fashion, Video Cloud will eventually integrate with Once for video on-demand streaming, and Video Cloud Live and Zencoder Live Cloud Transcoding will integrate with OnceLIVE for fully monetized live event streaming." That's a lot of integration. No date was given as to when they expect it all to be completed.
In 2012, Brightcove spent $30M to acquire Zencoder which was projected to do $2M in revenue for the year. Add in the Unicorn Media deal and Brightcove has now spent $79M in two deals for two companies that combined, will add $12M-$14M in revenue in 2014. I understand where the pieces that Zencoder and Unicorn bring fit into Brightcove's ecosystem, which does make their platform stronger, but the valuation they gave both companies was way too high. Brightcove is making some huge bets as to the future of this market and while there is nothing wrong with that, you have to be realistic on what's really transpiring in the market and how quickly it will grow. Saying in your press release that you "believe that online video has the potential to surpass traditional TV" is simply buying into the hype. If the market Brightcove is targeting is really more than $13B dollars this year, how are they only expecting to grow their business as a whole by 10%? These inflated market projections that many vendors all use are simply that, inflated and not realistic.
When it comes to doing ad insertion, in particular for live streaming, it's hard to make it work right. Even if you can do it, the market is and will be small for many years to come as there is more VOD content available than live. Plus even when it comes to the smaller live ad insertion market, it's a crowded arena. Vendors who have solutions, or are working on solutions for live ad insertion include mDialog, Yospace, Jivox, Ooyala, Blackarrow, Vubiquity, FreeWheel, Azuki Systems, Adobe (NASDAQ:ADBE), Volar Video and others. Some of these companies are still working on such solutions and others may not work as well as advertised, in fact some don't, but the point is there are a lot of vendors in the market trying to solve the same problem, for a market that can realistically only support a few of them.
Not to mention, the fragmentation in the online video advertising world is a nightmare as no standards exist, which keep the market for online video advertising services from really growing quickly. You have physical ad insertion vs. ad / campaign management and content ops vs. ad ops with no overlapping server-side insertion functionality between the two. Add in the fact that there is a lot of strategy involved with premium content owners trying to find the balance of how much content is streamed on the Internet vs. protecting their legacy cable TV ratings, and stream stitching for ads is only one small part of the problem. A larger business problems exists in addition to the technical one.
I respect Brightcove for what they have done. They basically created the industry they are in. They are passionate, they love what they do and from everything I have seen and heard, they treat employees well and treat customers with respect. But they have to set realistic expectations not only for Wall Street, but also for the rest of the industry. I talk to a lot of Wall Street money managers about Brightcove's business and many don't find them a compelling story anymore. They always say to me, "I expected the market for these services to grow faster and be larger." And it's not just Wall Street Brightcove has to set the right expectations with.
As long as Brightcove is the leader in this market for these services, based on revenue, others look to them for the valuations they put on the acquisitions they make. Like it or not, Brightcove is the barometer for the online video platform industry and everyone notices what they do. Eighteen months after Brightcove's acquisition of Zencoder, we have no data points from the company to show if it was a success. I hope after the Unicorn Media acquisition is closed and the platforms are integrated, the company will provide the industry concrete evidence as to what's really taking place in the online video ad market, with real numbers on how it is growing.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010704:45
SYMBOL = CMG
Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (NYSE:CMG) is a fast-consumer industry stock that has shown impressive growth in price ever since its public listing. The company's stock has experienced a growth of 179% from February to December of 2013. The emphasis of this report lies solely on determining whether or not the same growth in the stock price can be projected for the future or if now is a good time to take a short-term position regarding the stock.
Chipotle's restaurants are mainly distributed across the United States as shown by the company's recent quarterly statements. Approximately 99% of Chipotle's restaurants are spread over the US with the remaining 1% distributed across Canada, England, France, and Germany. With that in mind, we will rely on the US economy's performance to reflect the company's performance for the future.
US Consumer Trend
The Restaurant Performance Index (RPI) for the US economy is finally looking up after a dismal recessionary period. To be precise, the monthly performance index, released by the National Restaurant Association (NRA), has stayed above 100 for the ninth consecutive month. An index value above 100 indicates that the industry is experiencing or is expected to enter the expansionary phase depending on which component of the index (Current Situation Index or Expectation Index) we are looking at. RPI stood at 101.2 in November 2013 and that was the highest level since June of the same year. Considering that the index measures the health and the future outlook of the country as driven by same-store sales and consumer traffic in the restaurants, restaurant owners are optimistic about 2014. The annual performance of the index is shown in the graph below and dates back to 2003.
Now let us discuss consumer spending in the Quick Service Restaurants (NYSE:QSR) industry segment. Although consumer spending has been dismal for the first half of the 2013 it has shown a positive trend after the end of the third quarter of 2013 compared to the same period of the previous year. However, restaurant visits remained flat. This year is expected to be better for the QSR industry and consumer traffic is expected to rise by at least 1% and spending is expected to increase by 3%.
The following table indicates the results of a survey conducted by Gallup that measures changes in the consumption pattern of Americans today.
Consumers today are drifting away from fast food restaurants. In the same survey, 48% of Americans marked fast foods as unhealthy. Consumers are increasingly switching to healthier food substitutes such as gluten-free products. The market for gluten-free products experienced a growth of about 44% in 2013 and is expected to grow at an even higher growth rate of 48% in 2014. According to a survey conducted consumers who purchase gluten-free products do so for varying reasons. The following pie chart shows the distribution of consumers who purchase gluten-free products and their reasons for doing so.
Chipotle's Responsiveness to Industry Changes
Chipotle is a dignified restaurant chain that claims to use food ingredients that are both animal and environmentally friendly. The company is proud to maintain the fact that it uses organic foods and meat from animals that are raised in a natural manner (i.e. raised without using any antibiotics or hormones).
To further its operations in serving healthier food substitutes to consumers Chipotle has started operations in similar markets. The company's new chain, ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen, specializes in serving gluten-free and dairy-free Southeast Asian dishes as demanded by consumers. Other than that, Chipotle has partnered with a small pizza chain, Pizzeria Locale, to further grow its operations in the healthy fast food market. The pizza industry is relatively insensitive to recessionary pressures as shown by the consistent sales despite sky rocketing prices and depleting household incomes. Statistics indicate that 93% of Americans eat at least one pizza per month. Therefore, Pizzeria Locale is expected to bring in growth in company revenues in the long term.
Recent Company Performance
During the third quarter of 2013 the company's same store sales went up by approximately 6% and its net income increased by approximately 15%. The sales are expected to improve in the future because of the rising RPI discussed above. The company's revenues have been growing at a spectacular rate of 21.6% over the past three years. The industry average for revenue growth presently stands at 9.6% denoting the fact that Chipotle is performing better than the industry.
Moreover, with no debt shown in the company's financial statements the company actually bought back a small portion of its shares and currently has 31 million shares outstanding in 2013 compared to 32 million outstanding shares in 2012. There are two strong interrelated points that must be mentioned here. First, the company bought back its shares from its free cash flows indicating that it is positive about its future profitability. Second, share buyback improved the percentage ownership of the remaining investors and enhanced the value of their voting rights.
The casual dining industry is expected to experience a positive growth trend in 2014. To reiterate, although consumer behavior is drifting away from health hazardous fast foods the healthy food industry is expected to show high growth. Chipotle is very active in realizing the changing consumer behavior and is capitalizing on its growth opportunities in a timely fashion. The company is likely to continue to deliver positive returns to investors therefore I recommend buying the stock.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010705:25
SYMBOL = RHP
As a dividend-driven investor who doesn't mind a moderately yielding REIT play every once in a while, I've decided to shift my focus to the Hotel/Motel REIT sector and highlight several of the reasons behind my decision to remain bullish on shares of Ryman Hospitality Properties, Inc. (NYSE:RHP).
Company Overview
Founded in 1955 and headquartered in Nashville, Tennessee, Ryman Hospitality Properties owns and operates hotels in the United States. Its Hospitality segment operates a network of meetings-focused resorts, and its Opry and Attractions segment owns and operates Nashville-based tourist attractions, including but not limited to the Grand Ole Opry and the Ryman Auditorium. (Yahoo! Finance)
#1: Recent Performance & Trend Behavior
On Friday, shares of RHP, which currently possess a market cap of $2.13 billion, a forward P/E ratio of 31.50, and a dividend yield of 4.74% ($2.00), settled at a price of $42.15/share. Based on their closing price of $42.15/share, shares of RHP are trading 1.80% above their 20-day simple moving average, 4.92% above their 50-day simple moving average and 11.22% above their 200-day simple moving average. These numbers indicate a short-term, mid-term, and long-term uptrend for the stock, which generally signals a moderate buying mode for most long-term investors.
#2: Recent Dividend Establishment & Behavior
On November 8, 2012, and after announcing its plans to convert to a Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT), Ryman Hospitality paid a special dividend of $6.84/share. The company subsequently went on to pay its investors a quarterly dividend of $0.50/share in each of the last four quarters.
According to the company's Q3 earnings press release, "It is the company's current plan to distribute total annual dividends of approximately $2.00 per share for 2013 in cash in equal quarterly payments in April, July, October, and January 2014, subject to our board of directors future determinations as to the amount of quarterly distributions and the timing thereof."
If the company can demonstrate strength in terms of its Adjusted FFO (which was up 163.9% compared to the previous year), its Net Income (which came in at $18 million versus a net loss of $26.7 million that was demonstrated during Q3 2012) and its RevPAR (which fell 2.7% versus the year-ago period) in the fourth quarter, I strongly believe investors could see an annualized dividend increase of $0.02/share-to-$0.04/share when the company announces its dividend plans for 2014.
#3: Looking Ahead to Q4 FFO
If we begin to look ahead to the company's Q4 FFO, in which analysts are calling for RHP to earn $0.43/share in terms of FFO (which is $0.16/share higher than the company had reported during Q3) and $272.13 million in terms of revenue (which is $50.93 million higher than the company had reported during Q3 2013), I suspect most investors would like to see Ryman continue to demonstrate increases in Adjusted FFO, Net Income and RevPAR.
How can Ryman Hospitality Properties surpass estimates?
If the company can demonstrate an increase of at least 2.75%-to-3.25% in terms of Revenue Per Available Room (RevPAR), an increase of at least $2.7 million in terms Adjusted EBITDA (RHP reported $57.3 million during Q3 2013), and at least a 7.50% increase in Total Revenue, I see no reason why the company's FFO and Revenue estimates can't be met or even slightly exceeded when Ryman announces its Q4 results sometime in February.
Risk Factors (Most Recent 10-K)
According to Ryman's most recent 10-K, there are a number of risk factors investors should consider before establishing a position. These risk factors include but are not limited to:
#1 - If the company fails to qualify as a REIT or fails to remain qualified as a REIT, it would be subject to tax at corporate income tax rates and would not be able to deduct distributions to stockholders when computing its taxable income.
#2 - The company may be required to borrow funds, sell assets, or issue equity to satisfy its REIT distribution requirements or maintain various asset ownership tests.
#3 - The company's cash distributions are not guaranteed and may fluctuate.
For those of you who may be considering a position in Ryman Hospitality Properties, I strongly recommend keeping a close eye on the company's earnings growth, its dividend behavior and any further growth it may demonstrate over the next 12-24 months as each of these factors could play a role in the company's long-term performance.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010707:12
SYMBOL = SNE
During last week, there were several news reports suggesting that Sony (NYSE:SNE) will be teaming up with its rival Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) in order to create a Windows Phone device sometime this year. This is an interesting development given that Microsoft and Sony have been competing with each other in several areas, most notably in the video game console market where Microsoft's Xbox and Sony's PlayStation series dominate the market together. As Microsoft is getting more involved in consumer electronics, this competition between the two companies will intensify; however, this doesn't mean they can't work together to bring up a new Windows Phone device.
In the last couple years, Nokia (NYSE:NOK) became the savior of the Windows Phone ecosystem until Microsoft bought the company's mobile devices business in order to build both software and hardware in the house in order to ensure total integration comparable to that of Apple's (NASDAQ:AAPL) ecosystem around the iPhone. Nokia was able to grow Windows Phone ecosystem from almost nothing to double-digit market share in Europe and solid market share elsewhere. This was helped greatly by Nokia's cheaper phones Lumia 520 and Lumia 521. Earlier, this year, I predicted that Windows Phone's market share gains would slow down significantly once "Nokia Lumia" becomes "Microsoft Lumia" because Microsoft doesn't enjoy the same consumer perception that Nokia has always enjoyed. Nokia's strong brand name across the world allowed people to give the company a "second chance" with its Lumia phones and a lot of people wanted to bet their money on the "underdog" and help it come back to life after a near-bankruptcy-experience. Microsoft will have to spend loads of money and put a lot of its weight on marketing in order to create the same effect on the consumers.
So, where does Sony stand in all of this? Well, Sony also enjoys a strong brand name globally and it is also associated with high-quality consumer products. If there is one company in the world (apart from Apple) that can fight the mighty old Samsung (OTC:SSNLF), that's probably Sony. One of Nokia's biggest weaknesses was the fact that the company is not particularly strong in the marketing side of things. Nokia can build brilliant phones but it has trouble marketing those phones to the public. Sony doesn't have such a problem as the company is also good at the marketing side of things. Can Sony build a Windows Phone device that is good enough to battle the major players in the market today? Very likely. Can Sony market this product efficiently in a way to disrupt the current market? Absolutely. The problem is, even if Sony comes up with a Windows Phone device, it won't put all its weight behind this device because, unlike Nokia, Sony also has Android phones in the market.
Regardless, having Sony build and market a Windows Phone might be a good catalyst in catching attention of app developers. As many people who have been following the Windows Phone story for a while know, one of the biggest issues in front of the Windows Phone ecosystem is the lack of high quality apps. Compared to iOS and Android, the Windows Phone ecosystem has very few apps and it suffers from catch-22: it has too few users to gain attention of app developers; but also, it has too few apps to gain attention of users. Microsoft tried to remedy this by paying a bunch of app developers a lot of money in addition to developing its own in-house apps but this didn't seem to help all that much.
Without the help of another major player like Sony or Nokia, Microsoft will have a lot of trouble growing its Windows Phone ecosystem. This is why I was very surprised when Microsoft decided to buy Nokia's mobile devices business without buying the actual brand name. In consumer electronics, brand names mean a lot. If you are not going to buy Nokia's brand name, buying the rest of Nokia's mobile devices business won't get you much attention. This is why, as soon as Nokia Lumia becomes Microsoft Lumia, I expect the phone's growth to slow down significantly. Nokia worked hard to build the Lumia brand but Microsoft can't just add its name before the brand's name and call it a day. Consumers are pickier than that.
According to the stories floating around the internet, Microsoft will be offering Sony (along with several Asian phone makers) financial incentives such as discounted licensing in order to lure the company into the Windows Phone ecosystem. Of course, Microsoft will not give away its software like how Google gives away its Android; however, Sony might be able to get a really good deal from Microsoft if it can sell its Windows Phone devices in high volumes.
For Sony, giving Windows Phone a try might not hurt that bad. This will probably be an experimental move and Sony will be watching how Windows Phone performs closely as soon as launching one or more Windows Phone devices. It will be definitely interesting to see if Sony can give Windows Phone the much needed lift and take it from where Nokia left off to the next level.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010707:39
SYMBOL = CROX
Investors in Crocs (NASDAQ:CROX) are happy that investment firm Blackstone joined the company late in 2013, making a $200 million investment in the firm. The fact that the company ousted its CEO was applauded as well with investors being disappointed with the strong, but less profitable global growth in the company's store base.
These developments are a net positive for the company in the long term and should be good for shareholders as well.
Blackstone's Preferred Stock Investment
Crocs announced last week that it is tying up with Blackstone. The investment firm will invest $200 million in Crocs through a convertible preferred stock investment.
On top of this, the company announced many other important items. This includes a hiked share repurchase authorization to $350 million and the retirement of CEO John McCarvel. The preferred stock investment allows Crocs to revise its capital structure, by reducing the outstanding float by some 30% through repurchases at levels before the deal has been announced. Given the 20% jump following the news, this number will come closer to 25% at current levels.
The stronger and long-term shareholder base provides a better long-term base, with expected lower volatility in the stock. Repurchases are expected to start in the first quarter of 2014. Note that Blackstone's preferred stock investment carries a 6.0% dividend rate while being able to be converted at $14.50 per share, a 9% premium to the closing levels of shares of Crocs before the deal has been announced.
Once converted, Blackstone could hold up 13% of the diluted share base outstanding. If within three years from now the share price of Crocs will trade above $29 for 20 days in a row, shares will be automatically converted into common shares. Note that Blackstone will furthermore be entitled to two board seats.
Outgoing CEO McCarvel led the turnaround of Crocs over the past decade, creating a diversified company with a strong balance sheet. Yet investors are not happy with the growth strategy of the firm in recent years.
Updating The Fourth Quarter Guidance
Crocs now sees fourth quarter revenues at the low end of the $220 to $225 million guided revenue guidance. Diluted losses per share are seen at the low end of the guidance of losses between $0.20 to $0.23 per share.
Note that costs associated with the Blackstone transaction, cash repatriation charges, impairment charges etc. are excluded in this guidance. These charges could be as high as $47 to $52 million in the fourth quarter, of which $20-$25 million are incurred as actual cash expenses.
Crocs' Financials And Financial Position
Back at the end of October, Crocs released its third quarter results. Cash and equivalents stand at $332.5 million. Total debt, including capital lease obligations stands at just $13.6 million, resulting in a strong net cash position of $319 million.
Revenues for first three quarters of the year totaled $964 million. This is up by 7.3% on the year before on new store openings, while the decline in comparable sales is hurting profits. Net earnings fell by nearly 43% to $77.4 million, partially on higher effective tax rates.
Following the updated outlook, full year revenues are seen at $1.18 billion, as earnings could evaporate for the full year, including all the one-time charges. Excluding these, earnings could come in around $50-$55 million.
Factoring in the huge gains on the back of the news, with shares trading at $16.00 per share, the market values Crocs at $1.42 billion. This values operating assets of the firm around $1.08 billion, the equivalent of 0.9 times annual revenues and roughly 20 times non-GAAP earnings.
Looking Back At Recent Years
Shares of Crocs rose to highs of $70 during the hype about its colorful shoes in 2007. In the years following, shares fell to levels of just $1 before a restructuring of the company resulted in a strong turnaround.
Shares did eventually recover to levels around $30 in the summer of 2011, yet shares have lost half of their value again in the meantime. Investors are not happy with the aggressive expansion plans, eating into earnings.
Between 2009 and 2012, Crocs increased its annual revenues by a cumulative 75% to $1.12 billion. The company has returned to profitability and reported solid earnings in the past three years.
Implications For Shareholders
Investors are relieved that Blackstone came onboard and that Crocs' CEO has been ousted. The focus on growth, has resulted in top line revenue growth. Yet this growth was entirely being attributed to store openings as comparable store sales actually fell significantly this year.
This obviously is a very bad mix for margins and earnings, despite top line growth, and consequently earnings fell hard again this year.
For this reason, investors are happy with comments from Chairman Thomas Smach. He notes that the company will focus on better financial performance in the US and Japan, enhancing the global retail execution. As part of this, Crocs may moderate the pace of investments in its retail stores.
The implicit higher leverage by allowing the firm to repurchase roughly a quarter of the current share base at current levels, combined with improved operational performance should drive significant growth potential, at least for the shares.
Investors are very happy with the $200 million cash infusion into the company, which is applauded by the big jump last week. With Blackstone onboard, holding a tighter lid around management's actions and accountability, long-term holders should have better days to look forward to.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010708:00
SYMBOL = PGNX
Developing cancer therapies has proven to be very difficult for biopharmaceutical companies. Cancer therapies typically extend a patient's life with the disease, but no company has been able to find a cure. However, new advancements in cancer treatments are happening faster than ever and newer technologies are revolutionizing the business.
Looking back to 2013, more breakthroughs occurred than in any other year in recent history. New and innovative techniques are revolutionizing the accuracy that treatments can be delivered to specific cells. This results in less toxicity for patients and a better quality of life. Progenics Pharmaceuticals (PGNX) is one of several companies that may produce positive oncological data in 2014.
Proven Delivery Technology
The method of delivery of cancer therapies is key to increasing efficacy and decreasing toxic side effects. Companies that are able to develop drugs with better efficacy and safety profile are often the best treatments on the market. In 2005, Progenics inked a deal to license antibody drug-conjugate (ADC) technology from Seattle Genetics (NASDAQ:SGEN) for a $2 million upfront fee. ADC technology has been developed and used by Seattle Genetics in Adcetris for relapsed Hodgkin's Lymphoma. In August of 2011, the FDA approved Adcetris for Hodgkin's Lymphoma before it even reached Phase III trials because it was so effective against the disease.
Proven drug delivery technology is extremely valuable. In so many cases, the use of proven drug technology in new therapies can lead to easy approval, as the FDA has already given the go ahead for that drug's mode of action. Progenics is using the same monoclonal antibody technlolgy, cytotoxic agent, and linking technology that is used in Adcetris, which is approved and sold on the market. Even though there is no guarantee Progenics' therapy against prostate cancer will work as well as Seattle Genetics' therapy for Hodgkin's Lymphoma, proven technology bodes well for the odds.
This effective and unique mode of delivery is important for Progenics because prostate cancer is such a tough type of cancer to treat and is the second most common form that occurs in men. For this reason, there is large demand for newer and more effective treatments to combat the disease. The FDA has recently approved Xofigo several months early due to the lack of effective treatments on the market. The prostate cancer drug market is approximately $4B, so it is no surprise that there are several companies trying to develop better and safer treatments for the disease.
Why ADC Technology is Effective
ADC technology employs a different mode of action than current treatments on the market (Xofigo, Xtandi, Provenge and chemotherapy). Seattle Genetics has achieved over a decade of experience with ADC technology. This technology has been licensed to six other companies for use in its clinical programs including Celldex (NASDAQ:CLDX) and Endocyte (NASDAQ:ECYT).
This technology utilizes a "Y-Shaped" protein, called a monoclonal antibody, to deliver treatments directly to a cell. The antibody is equipped with a toxic cancer-killing agent via a chemical link that is designed to hold the therapy. Once the antibody reaches the cancer cells, this cathepsin-cleavable linker dissolves and releases the therapy into the cancer cell.
Progenics is utilizing the properties of prostate cancer cells to deliver therapy directly to the cell. Prostate cancer cells have a cell "signature" that makes it easier to identify them from a healthy cell. On almost every prostate cancer cell there is a prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) that differentiates it from other healthy cells. PSMA is an enzyme and is used as a biomarker to find prostate cancer, flagging it for destruction by the cancer therapy.
ADC technology employs the use of the monoclonal antibody, which is carried through the blood stream until it finds and then selectively binds PSMA. It is then able to attach the therapy directly to the cancerous cells and even the blood vessels that supply nutrients to other cancerous tumors. PSMA ADC is then internalized by the cancer cell after binding with PSMA and releases the toxic agent to kill the cancer cells.
The therapy, or cytotoxic agent, that is delivered to the cancerous cells is called a Monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE) and is 100 to 1000 times more potent than traditional chemo agents. MMAE is not an agent that can be taken into the body by itself due to its extreme high toxicity. When it's directly delivered to the cancer cells as it is with ADC technology, the destruction of healthy tissue is avoided. This is what differentiates the technology from all others and makes it so effective.
The most difficult component of this technology to master is the linker that binds the toxic agent to the antibody. The linker has to be strong enough to hold the toxic agent in the blood, but also be specific enough to dissolve in the cancerous cell. Several companies have recently begun to have success with similar linker technology. CytRx (NASDAQ:CYTR) recently produced positive Phase II data with its drug Aldoxorubicin that employs a type of linker technology, tripling share price on data. When cytotoxic agents are able to be "linked" to delivery compounds with high enough affinity so that they do not release before reaching its target, higher amounts of these agents can be delivered, thus increasing efficacy and safety. In the case of PSMA ADC, super-potent agents that are were too toxic to use by themselves are now able to be delivered to tumors without the mass destruction to other, healthy cells.
Phase I Clinical Data is Positive
Progenics ran a Phase I study that evaluated patients with taxane-refaractory metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer, meaning that the patient's cancer had progressed despite prior chemotherapy treatments. 52 patients were evaluated in the study, which is intended to find proper and maximum tolerated doses of the therapy. Patients were dosed at nine different levels ranging in between .4-2.8 mg/kg of PSMA ADC. The study assessed anti-tumor activity as well as tolerability. The study found:
PSMA therapy was well tolerated.
Increased dosing of PSMA was directly correlated with a tumor reduction, showing a response to therapy.
The levels of PSMA, antibody, and MMAE (chemotherapy agent) were graphed and exposure of the drug components increased linearly. PSA (prostate-specific antigen) levels decreased as a result, showing PSMA ADC was directly killing cancer cells. It is tough to make assumptions on early Phase I data, but preliminary results look promising. Good tolerability at higher doses is a good sign for its safety profile.
Catalyst: Phase II Trial Data
Enrollment in the Phase II study was completed in early December and results are to be released at the American Society of Clinical Oncology's (ASCO Conference) Genitourinary Cancers Symposium Meeting in San Francisco on January 30, 2014.
The open-label study will be evaluating 110 patients and will assess anti-tumor activity and tolerability. The trial will be evaluating two groups. The first group comprises subjects who have undergone at least one taxane-containing chemotherapy regimen and the second group comprises patients who are chemo-naïve.
Extension Study Initiated By Progenics Signals Positive Results
News of an extension of the PSMA 2301 trial is a major contributing factor in helping determine that Progenics is seeing positive results thus far. On the government Clinical Trials website it states:
PSMA ADC 2301 EXT is an open-label study to further assess the anti-tumor activity as measured by radiographic imaging and biomarkers, safety and tolerability of PSMA ADC in subjects with mCRPC. Subjects who have participated in the PSMA ADC 2301 study and who, in the opinion of the Principal Investigator are likely to benefit from continued treatment with PSMA ADCare eligible for the PSMA ADC 2301 extension study. Subjects who are benefiting from treatment may be able to receive up to an additional eight to sixteen doses (every 3 weeks) of PSMA ADC.
The extension of this trial signifies that there are patients reacting well in the PSMA 2301 trial. The reason Progenics is running this trial is because the Principal Investigator believes that patients are going to continue to see benefits from continuing treatment.
Extending the trial also shows confidence from Progenics. From a financial standpoint, continuing the trial costs lots of money and there would be no reason to continue these trials if patients were not reacting well.
Advantage of Set Catalyst Date
Investors and even insiders of the company can never be sure on trial results. Holding through any data release is inherently risky. The advantage of this catalyst event is that Progenics has a set day that they will be presenting data. This allows investors the opportunity to initiate, reduce, or cut their position with the safety of knowing when binary news is going to be announced. Investors are able to strategically buy shares on catalyst run up to data, without holding shares through the actually release. This drastically limits risk by not having to take that chance that data may be bad, losing on the downfall.
Chart and Option Chain
For those that like to hold shares through data release, we also feel that Progenics makes a strong speculative play. Considering that the data is being presented at a large event like ASCO and that the company has enrolled an extension trial, we think it is likely that Progenics will present positive trial results.
From a chart standpoint, the stock is beginning to flag out off of its current run. With the catalyst nearing and sentiment becoming more positive, we feel that the stock is getting ready for another breakout to above $6 a share very soon.
The February 2014 option chain also signifies bullish sentiment. There is heavy call option open interest, which signifies that most traders are expecting good things in January. For those that want to hold through data release, the option chain could also be used to define one's downside risk.
The main emphasis of this article is to highlight the trade opportunity presented by Progenics and PSMA ADC. A set binary event data allows investors of all risk tolerances to play this as they see fit. We do believe the odds are well in favor of good data, as multiple fundamental bullish indicators point in that direction. It also should be mentioned that data will be released at ASCO. Rarely do companies release bad or mediocre data at these types of conferences and we expect that Progenics has anticipated this event with plans to bring forth some great data.
The speedy approval of Adcetris before even reaching Phase III trials also shows promise that PSMA ADC could be a potential blockbuster. Depending on market conditions, we believe a run up to $6.25 is very reasonable. With a $4B market for prostate cancer, we also believe Progenics will test $7-$7.50 on positive data. As nothing is a guarantee in the stock market, and biotech especially, leveraging risk tends to work in one's favor for the long haul. We like the opportunity with Progenics and PSMA ADC.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010709:31
SYMBOL = BA
Boeing (NYSE:BA) is one of the great American manufacturers. Like other major manufacturers like Ford (NYSE:F) and General Motors (NYSE:GM) it saw increased production and profits in 2013. All of these stocks had good performances in 2013, but Boeing easily outpaced everyone and more than doubled the return of the overall market as well.
It does not appear the company is done with its current roll as it has had several positive catalysts recently.
Positive Catalysts:
It just released a summary of stellar results from 2013. The company delivered 648 planes (a record) and received orders for 1355 more during the year. A backlog that most businesses would kill for.
Late in 2013 the company announced it was hiking its dividend by over 50%. In addition, it is upping its stock repurchase program by $10B.
Most importantly, the company reached a favorable conclusion on a 8 year contract with its historically militant Machinists Union. This has several powerful positives in it. It ensures labor peace for 8 years, the contract keeps the company from having to move some manufacturing to another state which would have been disruptive and it also provides substantial cost savings as well. Jefferies estimates this contract will reduce operation costs $250mm to $500m annually and calls the contract a 'watershed event'.
Valuation & Growth Prospects:
Boeing is no longer cheap at just over 18x forward earnings. However, the company is early in a substantial product cycle, has a massive backlog, and should see continued strong demand in the emerging markets for years to come.
Earnings should show a better than 30% year over year gain when the company submits its last quarterly report for FY2013 at the end of the month. Analysts project another 15% to 20% gain in FY2014. This could prove conservative as analysts have struggled to catch up with Boeing's recent earnings power. The company has beat bottom line expectations for at least twelve straight quarters.
Revenues are also expected to accelerate in the New Year. After posting a ~5% increase in sales in FY2013, analysts believe revenues will rise in the 8% to 10% range in FY2014. Finally, the company has a strong balance sheet and now pays a dividend north of 2%.
Boeing is a stock I regret booking profits on late in the summer. I will be looking at the next significant decline in the overall market to buy back in at slightly lower levels. This American icon is well positioned to continue deliver great results in the years ahead.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010710:20
SYMBOL = NFLX
Some movie fans may be disappointed that as of January 1st, Netflix (NASDAQ:NFLX) has canceled some prominent titles such as Titanic (1997), Flashdance (1983), Top Gun (1986), and Brave Heart (1995). No there wasn't a glitch in the system, removing and adding content is something Netflix does every month as licenses of movies and shows expire. "Titles come and go," Netflix spokeswoman Jenny McCabe told USA TODAY Network. "We usually re-license movies and television shows that people are regularly watching, and we choose to not re-license those that people are not watching." Several new movies are now available as of the New Year as well as many television shows. Some new content includes American Psycho (2000), Breakfast at Tiffany’s (1961), West Side Story (1961) and Dexter: Seasons 5-8. That’s not all that is changing this year as Netflix is also currently testing a new pricing model based on the number of people who can operate an account. Netflix currently has 40 million subscribers in 41 countries, up from 30 million only a year ago. Their growth has helped fund in-house programs such as House of Cards and Orange is the New Black. They are looking to invest more into original shows and even considering a move into movie production. Netflix’s most recent figures show that users have watched five billion hours of television shows and movies in the three months leading into September 2013. Even with competition emerging from Amazon Prime, there are plenty of reasons to believe that Netflix will continue its current positive trend as they are working on innovating themselves and I Know First’s algorithmic prediction for NFLX is somewhat bullish in the 1-month, 3-month time horizon and very bullish at 1-year.
Netflix's Possible New Pricing Model
Currently Netflix subscribers pay a monthly fee of $7.99 for a standard service that allows them to watch content on two screens at once. In April they announced an upgraded-account version that allows customers to watch on four screens simultaneously for $11.99/month intended for family-users. The DVD by mail subscription starts at $7.99 for one disc at a time. The new pricing system, which is only being tested at the moment, would have users pay $6.99 a month to use one screen and the price would rise to $9.99 if three screens were being used simultaneously. Netflix stated that they were only testing these options with some new users. Not everyone is very enthusiastic about this possible move. "If $6.99 enables Netflix to reach more consumers than $7.99 that's obviously positive but it's hard to imagine the $1 being a major price inhibitor," stated Richard Greenfield, an analyst at BTIG LLC who has a neutral rating on the stock. "If consumers who would have taken the $7.99 plan now sign up at $6.99, that all comes out of their profit margin. This is not the next pricing move investors were expecting."
Orange is the New Black has been a tremendous success for Netflix. It ended 2013 as the most watched original series ever as its audience is comparable with cable and broadcast television. Three of their original series received 14 nominations for Emmy Awards. In addition to their television series, Netflix has also made it a point to add popular comedic stand-up specials such as Aziz Ansari and Russell Peters whom premiered exclusively on Netflix this past fall. For kid audiences, they recently launched their first animated original series with DreamWorks Animation [DWA], Turbo F.A.S.T.
Producing original content will be crucial for Netflix to stay relevant and keep their subscribers satisfied with entertaining shows. If they produce popular shows like those that have made HBO famous then Netflix will really produce tremendous value for their subscribers and shareholders. Eighty-six percent of respondents in a survey done by Cowen Group said they would be less likely to cancel their Netflix subscription after viewing House of Cards. Intriguing original content will ensure consistent value as contracts for different shows and movies end. Netflix stated they expect to double their investment in original content in 2014. This still represents less than 10% of their overall global content expense.
When they first started producing original content they lacked specific data about viewing patterns over time thus using a straight-line amortization based on their experience with other networks. Now armed with more data, they can effectively strategize for a higher level of customer satisfaction and profit. The second seasons of House of Cards, Orange is the New Black, Derek and Hemlock Grove will be available this year as well. Their success has attracted talent as they have just announced a project from the Emmy and Golden Globe nominated creators of Damages Todd and Glenn Kessler and Daniel Zelman.
Key Partnerships That Provide Viewing Platforms For Netflix
Netflix is becoming more prominent and accessible as other companies produce amazing technologies such as smart TV's, Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) TV, Roku and Chromecast as well as some popular videogame/entertainment systems. Netflix benefits from additional exposure as an App available on the go as the use of mobile devices such as tablets and smartphones as Netflix viewing platforms are rapidly growing in popularity. Rumors have speculated that Google (NASDAQ:GOOG) will launch Nexus TV later this year adding another potential device to the list. This is all good news for investors as Netflix is the number 1 preferred service for viewing online TV content. Chart 1 shows how Netflix compares to other online TV providers.
Virgin Media, the UK's leading cable company, launched Netflix on a major cable set-top box available this quarter to Virgin Media subscribers. This is a win-win situation, as they believe this will increase customer satisfaction. Netflix stated they are open to more to these integrations with cable set-tops but believe it may be a while before cable set-tops match Internet set-top boxes for Netflix streaming volume.
In one year from July 2011 until July 2012, Netflix's share price fell approximately 78%. This was due to the fact that the combined subscription price $9.99 was split between streaming and DVD-rentals into two separate plans. Since then however, Netflix made an incredible return of 287% in 2013, almost quadrupling its stock price and beat the gains of many other technology companies. Chart 2 shows how Netflix has fared against other prominent tech companies.
So there is no dispute that Netflix shareholders had a great year in 2013, but where does the future lie for this stock in 2014. I Know First utilizes an advanced algorithm that works by analyzing the flow of money from one market to another by following over 1,400 different assets including stocks, ETFs, currencies, world indexes, interest rates, and commodities including gold, oil, and many more. The machine utilizes fifteen years of data and is updated daily as new information is introduced producing stock market forecasts from 3 days to 1-year. Basic instructions explaining how to read the forecast are available in my earlier article 2014 Market Forecast and Gold Prediction Based On Algorithms. There are also multiple strategies that can be utilized together or individually as an algorithmic trader employing daily forecasts.
The algorithm is slightly bullish on Netflix in the 1-month and 3-month time horizon and very bullish in the 1-year time horizon. However it should be noted that the algorithm is only somewhat bullish in the shorter time horizons and marginal growth is expected from 1-month to 3 months. This can be interpreted as the asset moving slightly in the short term but will continually move in a positive trend making a noteworthy gain by the end of the year. Do not expect Netflix to have the same tremendous gain it made in last year but there is still steam left to carry this conglomerate share price further.
As they implement the possible new pricing strategy or produce fresh original content, factors like these will certainly have an impact on Netflix's forecast, which is updated daily and can change the forecast to be more bullish or perhaps even bearish if reactions are similar to price model changes back in 2011. However, CEO Reed Hastings made a decision then that was unpopular but it ended up being the right choice. If they do decide to implement this new pricing model it would not seem to be the best move as he said in the 3Q13 letter to shareholders that the $7.99 price is working very well for membership growth and contribution margin growth. However do not fret as they are only testing this price model for the time being. What seems to be Netflix's best option is to keep producing original content for all demographics. I know that I am not alone when becoming annoyed when Netflix no longer has a movie or show because the contract expired. Creating popular entertaining original content will ensure that there is always at least one reason for customers to stay loyal if they are a fan of House of Cards or any other original series. Netflix also has an incredible advantage of being able to adapt to new technologies that will appear over the years. There is a good chance new forthcoming devices with a screen or at least the ability to connect to one with Internet access, will most likely host the Netflix App, providing entertainment and investor interest. In summation, Netflix will continue on this positive trend, just not at the same pace it had in 2013.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010711:32
SYMBOL = KRFT
Kraft Food (NASDAQ:KRFT) has been experiencing challenges since it was spun off from Kraft Food Inc. last year. The company, previously a part of bigger operations prior to separating, now focuses on selling packaged foods. Some of the popular brands that it includes are Velveeta Cheese and Maxwell Coffee. It now operates in six business segments that will help the company manage its portfolio more effectively and focus on building brand loyalty.
Around the time of the spin off the company saw its share value hike to 20%. However, volatility soon followed and was observed in the later half of 2013 although the price has remained around $52-$55. A look at the quarterly performance results could explain the shake in investors' confidence that might have contributed towards the volatility.
Operations After the Spin Off
On a quarterly basis, revenue has been falling significantly in all of the segments except cheese. Overall, net revenue or net organic revenue fell nearly by 4% to $4.4 billion. The price impact neared 1% while the product mix contributed the rest.
As you can see below, the decline in revenue mainly comes from the high inventory Kraft accumulated prior to the spin off. The higher spin related shipments in the previous year boosted the organic growth of company and caused an inflated figure in the past that of course is invalidated when compared with the current quarter. If we exclude the pricing, pruning and inventory effect, Kraft actually reported a 1% organic growth and the North American food and beverage industry saw a 0.5% volume decline in the third quarter. Kraft's performance was exceptional as it beat the industry by 100%.
Further, the company has been gaining market share in products that constitute more than 50% of the company's portfolio (2011:34%, 2012:40%). The company reported a 5% increase in its EPS to $0.83 this quarter. However, it includes gains from market-based impacts to post employment benefit plans of $0.18 and a negative $0.05 impact from changes in unrealized gains/losses from hedging activities. Excluding these events, the EPS is $0.7 this quarter marking an 11% decline from the previous year's figure.
The company is involved in a $650 million restructuring plan that began October last year. By September, the company incurred $554 million in costs which is expected to reach $600 million by the end of this year. Once the restructuring is complete we can expect the EPS to improve and the company to generate returns that are not dependent upon one-time events.
Macro Variables
The US is recovering from one of the worst recessions in decades. The consumer confidence index has reached a 5 month high this December. This indicates that consumers may spend more next year. Personal spending increased by 0.5% in November and this figure was larger than anticipated. A pickup in employment, higher property values and stock-market gains are increasing household wealth and positive sentiment.
With positive macro variables the company is also working to improve itself internally. As the company invests in its brands and innovative new products (reported by its heavy marketing expenses), it is going to gain pricing power to drive margins higher offsetting the negative impacts of higher costs. This can already be seen from Kraft's new product revenue which was around 13% of total revenue in 2012 improving significantly from 6.5% in 2009.
The Market
Kraft holds a very high penetration rate in the American and Canadian markets. The 98% rate indicates its strong preference in the market. Moreover, the rising trend amongst young professionals for ready packed food means we can expect future growth. For example, let us consider the Cheese segment.
The cheese market has grown at a CAGR of nearly 3% since 2010. Kraft is the leader in the cheese industry and has enjoyed an approximately 27% share of the cheese market in 2010 and a 28% share of the cheese market in 2011. The lower sales in 2012 resulted in a 60 bps reduction in market share in 2012 to 27.4% and it has continued to remain at that level during this year as well. Assuming the share remains at this level in the future the company can increase margins through lowering expenses or increasing productivity and it seems that the company is already following that strategy. Operating income jumped by more than 7.5% to $171 million. The income improvement was due to increasing productivity and lower marketing as well as SGA expenses.
Kraft's cheese division's two popular brands, Philadelphia and Kraft Singles, each generate more than $500 million in sales and are very popular among consumers. With leading brands in the segment Kraft is set to benefit the most from the steady growth in the cheese market in the US and Canada. The different prices ranging from the expensive Kraft Deli Deluxe to the cheaper Velveeta (priced around $2) will allow Kraft gain a wider range of consumers in the market.
Similar to cheese, Kraft's other segment markets are also growing. These other segments include beverages, refrigerated meals and meals & desserts. Therefore, Kraft is not short of demand and it just has to continue to generate competitiveness from within. Through restructuring and improved marketing we can expect the company to generate more earnings from its present asset base and capture a greater market share.
We can quantify the upside potential of Kraft by using the multiple based valuation. I chose this model for Kraft's valuation because of the company's short dividend history which disqualifies it from the DDM.
As shown in the table above the company is undervalued based upon the price to earnings and price to cash flow multiples while on the basis of price to sales and price to book multiples the company is overvalued. I have assigned different weights to these multiples in order to compute the intrinsic value of the stock in the average case scenario. By assigning 45% weight to P/E, 10% to P/B, 10% to P/S and the remaining 35% weight to P/C, the intrinsic value of the stock is $61.31 which gives a capital return of 14.14% to investors.
Kraft also recently announced a $3 billion buyback program with an unspecified end date. Amongst the changes, the rationale behind the move is easy to understand. The company is confident it will start to improve once its restructuring strategy is implemented. Even though you might be late for the 52.5 cents dividend that is expected next month it is not too late to buy stocks in Kraft and benefit from its attractive portfolio and post-restructuring activities.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010711:45
SYMBOL = DIS
Disney (NYSE:DIS) is the largest media conglomerate in the world and its avowed goal is to be a major player every sphere of endeavor in which it operates. The company is engaged in four distinct segments and is dominant in three of them. The question is - what about the fourth?
Before we go there, let us first look at how Disney's business evolved over the past seven years and how it is likely to go, all things remaining equal, over the next two:
This is Disney's largest segment, representing about 40% of its total business. It includes broadcast and cable television networks, television production operations, television distribution, domestic television stations and radio networks and stations. The businesses in the Media Networks Segment generate revenue from fees charged to cable, satellite and telecommunications service providers (Multi-channel Video Programming Distributors or MVPDs) and television stations affiliated with our domestic broadcast television network, from the sale to advertisers of time in programs for commercial announcements and from other sources such as the sale and distribution of television programming.
All predictions are that TV is in decline and this will impact this segment in no uncertain manner. According to an article published by the Business Insider on November 24, 2013, "We're at the beginning of a major historical shift from watching TV to watching video - including TV shows and movies - on the internet or on mobile devices. Nearly 5 million cable TV subscribers have gone elsewhere in the last five years ...
... and Facebook (NASDAQ:FB) and Google (NASDAQ:GOOG) are about to overtake all of TV In audience size."
In summary, this appears to be a seismic shift in the TV space worldwide and it will negatively affect Disney's largest segment. While there will be some marginal growth over the next few years, the long-term outlook is not encouraging.
This is Disney's second largest segment. It includes the Walt Disney World Resort in Florida, the Disneyland Resort in California, Aulani, a Disney Resort & Spa in Hawaii, the Disney Vacation Club, the Disney Cruise Line and Adventures by Disney. Disney manages and has effective ownership interests of 51% in Disneyland Paris, 48% in Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and 43% in Shanghai Disney Resort. The company also licenses the operations of the Tokyo Disney Resort in Japan. Revenue is predominantly generated through the sale of admissions to theme parks, sales of food, beverage and merchandise, charges for room nights at hotels, sales of cruise vacation packages, and sales and rentals of vacation club properties. Incidentally, the Shanghai Disney Resort will open in December 2015 after more than a decade in the making. It will be its largest behind Orlando's Walt Disney World and its first in mainland China.
Incidentally, Disney's Cruise Line business is relatively small potatoes in this segment. The company had a mere 2.5% market share in passengers and generated an estimated $900 million in 2013 - less than 5% of the segment's total.
The projection for the Parks and Resorts Segment is flat for the next two years and somewhat uncertain after that. It all hinges on the success of the Shanghai theme park and how this will play with the mainland Chinese consumer. If it is a replay of the Hong Kong Disneyland history then we are in for a bumpy ride - it took seven years before it turned a profit.
The Studio Entertainment segment produces and acquires live-action and animated motion pictures, direct-to-video content, musical recordings and live stage plays.
It generates revenue from the distribution of films in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. The company distributes produced and acquired films in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets primarily under the Walt Disney Pictures, Pixar, Marvel, Touchstone and Lucasfilm banners.
There is little doubt that this segment will do well over the next two years if box office expectations are anything to go by. The company had six movies out in 2013 and is expected to launch twelve in 2014 and nine in 2015. More importantly, slate quality is very strong in 2014 and even stronger in 2015 when such heavies as the Avengers, the Pirates and Star Wars will be hitting the big screen.
This is how the U.S. box office for Disney movies is projected for the years 2013 to 2015:
While this looks pretty good, the longer-term outlook is less promising. Credit Suisse featured an article in the Financialist publication of October 28, 2013 which said that:
"The movie business has a serious problem. Even though 2013's U.S. box office revenues are on par so far with 2012 - about $8.66 billion so far this year compared to about $8.65 billion at this time last year - the long-term outlook is gloomy. Whether it's video-over-the-Internet that's headed for the television or simply the world available on a tablet, the decades-old tradition of "going to the movies" is under fire from all fronts. And it's showing: Movie theatre attendance peaked at 1.6 billion in 2002 and only reached 1.36 billion last year, according to the Motion Picture Association of America. So what's Hollywood going to do? Can it script itself a happy ending? Truth be told, it's even worse than that. The hero of the last installment of this story - DVDs - is now a victim. People are also buying fewer physical copies of movies these days, putting additional pressure on studio earnings. An industry organization called the Digital Entertainment Group went so far as to stop keeping track of DVD sales as a discrete category in 2010, when they fell to $14 billion from a high of $20.2 billion in 2006. Even when lumped together with Blu-Ray, it's still getting uglier by the year. Sales of the two combined dropped to about $8.5 billion in 2012, 5.4 percent lower than in 2011."
Like a great many industries, the movie business is undergoing fundamental technological changes and these will not be limited to the U.S. alone. Undoubtedly, Disney is aware of this but there is nothing they can do to stem this particular tide over the longer-term.
Consumer Products and Interactive
The Consumer Products part of this fourth segment is basically doing three things: Merchandise Licensing, Publishing and Retail. The first, Merchandise Licensing, earns fees for licenses granted to third parties who then produce products and sell them to retailers - mainly toys, apparel, home décor and furnishings, stationery, health and beauty, food, footwear and consumer electronics. These licenses are based on characters from its film, television and other properties such as Mickey and Minnie, the Marvel properties including Spider-Man, The Avengers and Iron Man; Disney Princess, Cars, Star Wars, Winnie the Pooh, Monsters University and Toy Story plus all Lucas properties. The second, Publishing, licenses and publishes children's book, magazine, comic books and learning products in print and digital formats, based on Disney, Marvel and Lucas characters. The third, Retail, focuses on marketing products based on Disney, Marvel and Lucas brands through own Disney stores - 214 in North America, 88 in Europe and 46 in Japan - and internet sites.
The Interactive Segment is mainly active in the licensing or publication of video console games including Infinity, the hybrid of video game technology and toys launched in August 2013.
This is how the sales of this fourth segment evolved over the years:
Looking at the larger picture it becomes clear that the fourth segment is by far and away the fastest growing one at 130% over the nine-year period under review. The other three segments show between them a paltry 30% for the same period. Moreover, all three segments are facing major growth problems over the next ten or so years and the fourth segment is too small to make a difference. Or is it?
The way Disney management handled the Infinity project this year is interesting and possibly indicative of their future intentions. For the first time, Disney did not farm out a major consumer goods opportunity to their stable of licensees - they went and did the job themselves soup to nuts. They manufactured the product, they developed the supply chain, they promoted and advertised and went directly to the most demanding retailers in the world - Wal-Mart (NYSE:WMT), Target (NYSE:TGT), ToysRUs (TOYS) and Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN). More so, they used for their toy figures such icons as Rapunzel, Toy Story, Lone Ranger, Wreck-It Ralph and others - all properties for which they already had toy licensees such as Mattel, Neca, Thinkway and others.
First indications are that Disney has managed Infinity very well. They went up against the incredibly successful and strongly established Skylanders of Activision and put in a very respectable competitive performance. The buyers think that they recorded sales in the U.S. in the neighborhood of $200 million in 2013 compared to Skylanders estimated $300 million.
Just how successful Infinity has been so far is best demonstrated by consumer interest in it. The comparison is between the Skylanders since their first release, Disney's Infinity and Spiderman as a control, all in the United States:
My friends at the large retailers believe that they are looking at a test program. If Infinity is successful (and all indications are that it will), they expect further roll-outs and there are two directions Disney can go. They can go the cautious route and simply expand the Infinity program to include other toy brands such as Star-Wars, the Avengers and others. This would have the benefit of not upsetting the applecart with their current licensees such as Hasbro and Mattel. The other direction would be for Disney to begin capitalizing on their increasingly established relationships with the major retailers by slowly taking over expiring licenses for toy products now sold by the major toy companies. Here the math is very straight forward - rather than pocketing an estimated 10% in royalties the company would convert this to wholesale sales and increase its top line overnight tenfold.
Whichever way Disney is going to go, the overriding imperative is to ensure continued top-line growth over the next decade. The only segment now offering this opportunity is the fourth segment. The next twelve months will tell us whether they will go further down the Infinity road. If they do, the implications for the toy market and the leading toy manufacturers will be immense.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010711:49
SYMBOL = JCP
J.C. Penney (NYSE:JCP) stock has been noticeably weaker going into December comps and has been weak ever since Kyle Bass announced his sale and the SEC announced their investigation. The prices of the bonds and the bank debt are all basically on their recent highs - where they used to be seemingly chained to the price of the stock. So what does this mean for December and q4 comps which will drive the next leg up or down of the stock? The answer is not exactly crystal clear but I will take a shot at it: The fixed income securities are telling you that December was good enough that sales and margins are not enough to blow a hole in the capital structure which is good news. It probably means that JCP will come close to street expectations of low to mid single digits sales growth in Q4 and some modest amount of EBITDA..
The stock is trading as if that is not enough or on fears that it will be far worse. Given how much information the distressed debt market has access to versus the equity markets - particularly the banks who get monthly numbers if they sign confidentiality agreements, the debt trading is good news. The stock appears to be irrationally pricing in a massive earnings miss. Now the frost hitting the Midwest and Northeast is clearly not good for any retailer so perhaps that is a fear being priced in but other department store stocks appear to be doing just fine, so I doubt that is the reason. JCP also has a national footprint so the frost wouldn't hurt some of their sunbelt stores. Also, cold weather tends to drive sales of high margin winter coats and apparel so its mixed blessing to maybe good for the Company. Bloomberg is out with a research note saying that their retail panel interest in JCP increased to 43% from 12% in the first half of 2013, which indicated that CEO Mike Ullman's sales and promotion strategy is working. Even Imperial, bear on JCP, is out with a note saying the long-dated bonds are one of their best ideas going into 2014. So while I don't like to ignore technical weakness in JCP stock, I believe the strength in the bonds trumps the weakness in the stock and would add to stock positions here.
One of the errors that the bears are making is that they seem oblivious to the impact of a very modest recovery in EBITDA and multiples from their low targets. They anchor around these number to give them and their readers a false sense of security that even if JCP makes it, nothing can really hurt the shorts. I had many comments about recent bearish arguments made against JCP stock so I though I would summarize them in this article just so people can see what risk there is in taking the short side of the trade. As a thought piece, let's assume a 50% recovery using simple math from the $17 billion pre Ron Johnson sales. You get $15 billion of revenue, put GM at the KSS/BONT level of 36-37% range (36.5%). If SGA is $4 billion, EBITDA would he just over $1.5 billion. There are a lot of ways to skin this cat and get to high levels of EBITDA and Free Cash Flow ("FCF"). If you assume $400mm of Capx (guidance for 2014 is $300mm) and $365mm of interest expense. FCF is about $730 mm or $2.40 a share. Put 10x on that number and you have a $24 stock. If you believe that SGA is too low (I don't, but let's be conservative) and increase it to $4.25 billion which is above the Company's run rate and well above where it will be if the Company implements further cost cuts as they have talked about. In this case FCF declines to about $480mm or just under $1.6 per share. At 10x,you get a $16 stock. Bulls and Bears have been debating this same basic data set for months, but I never hear a bear say hey if I am wrong the stock could go up 200% or more.
In the mid $1 billions of EBITDA, you get huge swings in valuation. What I find fascinating is that bears are willing to anchor valuations at very low levels while not acknowledging that very small changes in EBITDA and multiples create huge swings up and down (though you can't get lower than $0, you can get much higher than $6 as one bear suggested as an upside target (never mind that a billion was just raised by smart investors at $9.6). A $100mm swing in EBITDA at 6x is $2 a share or a massive 25% increase over current levels for a very small swing in EBITDA . At $1.5 billion in EBITDA, a 1-turn change in multiple is $5, a 65% increase off the current quote and a level of EBITDA that many bears concede is possible. Last but not least, $2 billion of EBTIDA, which is where EBITDA was before Ron Johnson came in, yields over $4 of free cash per share and a $40 stock at 10x.
I have conceded many times that JCP could go bankrupt if it doesn't execute. I have just shown that very small changes in assumptions could yield fantastic upside to the stock. Are the bears really considering all the possible outcomes? The shorts in Best Buy (NYSE:BBY) sure didn't see $40 coming when the stock was at $8 a year ago. BBY's financials aren't all that different, but the multiple sure is. AMZN's threat is just as real to BBY today as a year ago if not more so.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010712:05
SYMBOL = RGSE
SPOTLIGHT 2014 SOLAR ENERGY - Real Goods Solar Shining in the $15 Billion Solar Market
Investment Highlights
Real Goods Solar (RSOL) is an undervalued play on the solar market. Real Goods is a leader in the solar installation market. Real Goods has new management who are executing as evidence by the return of top line growth, retaking of market share and lowering the company's cost base. Real Goods Solar is well positioned to take advantage of the growth opportunities in the solar installation market and, given the valuation of SolarCity (NASDAQ:SCTY), for a significant increase in valuations.
Real Goods Solar is a residential and commercial solar energy engineering, procurement and construction firm. Real Goods Solar also performs most of its own sales and marketing activities to generate leads and secure projects. Real Goods Solar offers turnkey services, including design, procurement, permitting, build-out, grid connection, financing referrals and warranty and customer satisfaction activities. Real Goods Solar's solar energy systems use high-quality solar photovoltaic modules from manufacturers such as Canadian Solar (NASDAQ:CSIQ) and Trina (NYSE:TSL). Real Goods Solar uses proven technologies and techniques to help customers achieve meaningful savings by reducing their utility costs. In addition, Real Goods Solar helps customers lower their emissions output and reliance upon fossil fuel energy sources.
Real Goods Solar has 35 years of experience in residential solar energy. Real Goods Solar traces its roots to 1978, when Real Goods Trading Corporation sold the first solar photovoltaic panels to the public in the United States. Real Goods Solar has designed and installed in excess of 110 megawatts of solar power across more than 16,000 residential and commercial solar systems since its founding. Real Goods Solar's focused customer acquisition approach and its efficiency in converting customer leads into sales enable it to have what Real Goods Solar believes are competitive customer acquisition costs that Real Goods Solar continuously focuses on improving. Real Goods Solar believes that its Real Goods Solar brand has a national reputation for high quality customer service in the solar energy market, leading to a significant number of word-of-mouth referrals and new customers.
Real Goods Solar was incorporated in Colorado in 2008 as a successor to Gaiam Energy Tech, Inc. (NASDAQ:GAIA). Gaiam, Inc. founded Gaiam Energy Tech, Inc. as its solar division in 1999. In 2001, Gaiam Energy Tech, Inc. acquired Real Goods Trading Corporation in a merger. The combined company became Real Goods Solar when it went public in 2008.
Value Proposition
According to the Energy Information Administration, the average electricity price to residential household in the United States rose from 8.72¢/kWh in 2003 to 11.88¢/kWh in October 2013 representing an average annual inflation rate of 3.4%. If trend inflation were to continue the average electricity price per kWh would be 21.35¢ in 25 years. 25 years equates to the average guarantee on a Real Goods Solar solar panel, but the average useful life is estimated at 50 years.
After rebates and tax credits, the cost of a Real Goods Solar 5kW solar panel system is $18,200. With average sunlight equal to the US average of 4.8 hours and a 5% discount rate, the net present value (NPV) of a solar panel is $1,067, representing savings over the 25 year guarantee. Under extremely conservative assumptions where the useful life equals the guarantee, there is a positive NPV. Assuming a useful life of 50 years, the NPV is $11,057. Additionally, a house with solar panels is estimated to sell for a premium of $5.91 per watt installed. A house with a recently installed, Real Goods Solar 5kW solar panel system would have an additional value of $29,550. The increase in home price pays for the system enhancing the company's value proposition.
Real Goods Solar has 35 years experience in the solar industry and is one of the largest players in the market. These both provide Real Goods Solar with brand recognition which is crucial as the market grows. Real Goods Solar also has an acquisitive history. Over the past 7 years, the company acquired 7 companies. This experience acquiring companies will be crucial as Real Goods Solar helps consolidate the fragmented solar industry.
Market Opportunity
According to the Solar Energy Industry Association (SEIA), total US solar installations will grow to over 9GW in 2016 from 3.3GW in 2012, as illustrated below.
With increased installations, the price for solar panel systems continues to fall. According to SEIA, over the past year residential system prices fell by 9.7% from $5.22 per watt (W) in Q3 2012 to $4.72/W in Q3 2013. Non-residential prices fell by 6.1% over the year from $4.22/W in Q3 2012 to $3.96/W in Q3 2013. Utility system prices fell 15% from $2.40/W in Q3 2012 to $2.04/W in Q3 2013. Blended average PV system prices fell 16.4% over the year with prices falling from $3.59/W in Q3 2012 to $3.00/W in Q3 2013. If prices continue to decline over the past three years, the average PV systems prices will fall by 17% per year leading to an average systems price of $1.71/W.
The solar panel installations market size should increase by 43% over the next three years from $11.0 billion in 2012 to $15.7 billion in 2016. With Real Goods Solar expecting to be a consolidator in this fragmented market, it should grow faster than the overall market.
The solar industry is growing at a rapid pace with the cumulative installations more than doubling over the next three years. This growth is driven by significant incentives offered by the federal and state governments related to renewable energy. At the federal level, solar panel installation provides a 30% tax credit on the purchase. Most states have a target for renewable energy called Renewable Portfolio Standards, illustrated below. Real Goods Solar is a leader in the industry and should be able to grow at a faster pace than the industry.
Real Goods Solar recently changed management. In July 2012, the company brought in Kamyar Mofid. Mr. Mofid has a wealth of knowledge in the solar industry with previous positions at SunEdison, REC Solar, AEE Solar and Teleflex. In June 2013, the company appointed David Belluck as Chairman of the Board. David Belluck is a partner at Riverside Capital Partners, a private equity firm with significant experience investing in the technology sector. Riverside Partners hold 25.8% of Real Goods Solar common stock outstanding. The main driver of their returns will be share price appreciation through fundamental improvements in the business. The combination of the new CEO and new Chairman of the Board has started to bear fruit. Management focused on a more disciplined management including improving operational processes and management reporting. The intense focus on discipline allowed the company to decrease total operating expenses from 42% of revenues in Q3 2012 to 24% of revenues in Q3 2013. Another sign of the strength of new management, Real Goods Solar expects 2013 revenues to be between $132-137 million, representing 42% annual growth in revenues. After 2012 revenues fell by 15%, this is a sign of the turnaround and resumption of the company's growth path. Real Goods Solar expects to continue to grow above market rates. Further evidence of the strength of management and the underlying business, the company reported record backlog in Q3 2013.
Associated with the new Chairman of the Board, Real Goods Solar has been able to decrease the importance of Gaiam as a shareholder. Gaiam was a creditor and a major shareholder but Gaiam shareholding is now only hold 9.9% compared to Riverside's 25.8% ownership. The company paid off all debt to Gaiam. Gaiam had a number of related party transactions including an annual fee for Inter-corporate Services in the amount of $672,000 per year. The company performed work on the Chairman's residence at a "customary" rate for work performed for employees." It also entered into a lease with DTCC Properties, LLC owned by the former Chairman of the Board for office space. These are not necessarily transactions at the expense of minority shareholders but eliminating them with the resignation of the Chairman of the Board decreased corporate governance risk substantially.
Real Goods Solar recently made two significant acquisitions. In August 2013, the company acquired Syndicated Solar. Syndicated Solar has a very strong sales force which will complement the company's strengths. The company recently saw capacity constraints as engineers are required in the multiple steps in the process including sales. Syndicated Solar helps alleviates those constraints. In August 2013, Real Goods Solar purchased Mercury Energy. The Mercury Energy acquisition positions the company as one of the largest U.S. solar installation companies measured by installed customers. The acquisition also provides the company with a much stronger presence in the Northeastern market and a much stronger commercial division. The combined company will be much larger leading to more diversified company which will lead to greater economies of scale and greater access to capital. Real Goods Solar also gained $10 million in working capital.
Real Goods Solar has high operational leverage. With the exception of commission, the vast majority of its other expenses are fixed. As revenues grow at the rapid pace profitability will grow at a much faster pace leading to margin expansion and a greater valuation multiple.
In November 2013, Real Goods Solar raised $18.4 million from a share offering, significantly strengthening the balance sheet.
Real Goods Solar has undergone a significant transformation over the past two years with new management drastically decreasing the company's break-even point, decreased the connection with Gaiam and made a number of acquisition increasing the company's geographic and customer scope. These moves made the company much stronger and better able to take advantage of the growth in the solar installations market.
To value Real Goods Solar, The Focused Stock Trader looks at its close competitor SolarCity. Solar City, like Real Goods, focuses on solar installations. The table below shows the key statistics of Solar City and Real Goods Solar.
Real Goods sales were twice that of SolarCity in 2011 and strategic missteps lead to a revenue decline in 2012 for the company while SolarCity took advantage of the misstep and almost double their revenues in 2012. SolarCity's revenues continue to grow while their operating margin continues to grow as well. Real Goods is expecting sales to reach $132 in 2013. Management has done a great job increasing operating efficiency while SolarCity's operating margin continues to rack up loses with the prospects of future returns. SolarCity trades on an EV/Sales multiple of 36 and Real Goods trades on an EV/Sales multiple of 1.09. The massive discrepancy is unwarranted and Real Goods should trade on a much higher multiple. Assuming an extremely conservative EV/Sales multiple of 3 still 1/12th the multiple SolarCity warrants, Real Goods would be valued at $9.22 per share or 175% upside.
Real Goods Solar had a tremendous 5 wave advance from the Nov 2012 lows near $0.40 to over $7.00 by May 2013. It then experienced a sharp pullback retracement move over the next 3 months which saw it dip back under $2.00 briefly before snapping back to near $4.50 by mid October. Another pullback retest occurred until December when it retested $2.00 successfully and bounced back to $3.84 this week to test the 6 month declining tops line resistance. Yes, the action is quite volatile but we believe the company is undervalued and may soon break out of that declining tops line to test first resistance near $4.65 then look for a run to $6.50-6.75 zone. Longer term we believe a double digit target is possible.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010712:39
SYMBOL = DRII
January 14 will mark the conclusion of the 180 day lockup period that has followed the July 18 IPO of membership-based hospitality and vacation ownership firm Diamond Resorts International (NYSE:DRII), allowing outstanding shares held by major pre-IPO shareholders to be sold. The unlocking will also allow DRII executives and directors to sell their own shares.
This sudden increase in the supply of DRII shares will likely lead to at least a brief dip in the price of shares, and could present a short opportunity for aggressive investors. DRII has seen steady but unspectacular market performance since its IPO; shares initially priced at $14.00, below the expected $16.00-$18.00 range, and have since risen as high as $19.42 per share. The firm closed at $18.22 per share on January 6.
The expiration of the lockup period on January 14 will apply to the approximately 60 million shares of DRII not offered in the 15.5 million share IPO. Some 10.9 million of these shares are held by Wellington Management Company LLP, which may sell at least some of its shares in order to raise capital. DRP Holdco LLC and Cloobeck Diamond Parent LLC are the respective owners of 11.3 million and 16.9 million shares, but are under less pressure to sell; nonetheless, they may unload some shares in the interest of diversification. Similarly, DRII directors and executives may choose to sell some of their shares, having had no opportunity to do so in the past six months.
Business Summary
DRII is a hospitality and vacation ownership firm that offers 296 vacation destinations spread across 32 countries and six continents, including 79 Diamond Resorts properties managed by the firm and 213 affiliated resorts and four cruise itineraries not managed by the firm. Members receive an allotment of points each year depending on the number of vacation ownership interests "VOIs" that they have acquired, and can use those points to stay at any destination within the network of resort properties. In essence, the firm functions as a massive, flexible, multi-destination timeshare. DRII boasts an ownership base of over 490,000 owner-families.
Risk Factors
Like other vacation-based stocks, DRII is extremely sensitive to changing conditions in the economy, and while the American economy has been recovering over the past year, it remains in a precarious position. In the event of the economy regressing, DRII could quickly lose the ground that it has gained over the past six months on the market.
The 2008 downturn, for instance, had catastrophic effects on the sales of VOIs; the ARDA International Foundation reported that aggregate U.S. VOI sales declined $0.9 billion, or 8.5%, to $9.7 billion in 2008 from $10.6 billion in 2007, and aggregate U.S. VOI sales then declined $3.4 billion, or 35.0%, to $6.3 billion in 2009.
DRII must compete with a potent set of established lodging and hospitality firms that now offer similar VOI programs. These competitors include heavyweights like Four Seasons Resorts, Hilton Hotels (NYSE:HLT), Hyatt Corporation (NYSE:H), Marriott Vacations Worldwide (NYSE:VAC), Starwood Hotels and Resorts (NYSE:HOT), The Walt Disney Company (NYSE:DIS), and Wyndham WorldWide (NYSE:WYN).
The firm also competes with smaller lodging firms and with emerging alternative lodging firms such as Home Away (NASDAQ:AWAY) and Airbnb, which allow vacationers to book furnished, privately-owned residential properties for short stays.
The unlocking of so many shares may provide aggressive investors a nice short trading opportunity.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010712:46
SYMBOL = F
Ford (NYSE:F) investors had a great period between the summer of 2012 and fall of 2013 as the company's stock price nearly doubled during this period. Of course, other car companies also saw similar rallies around this time when investors realized that the concerns regarding the European auto market were getting subdued, the North American market's recovery was accelerating and the car companies were seeing strong gains in Asia. At the end of last year, Ford reduced some of its guidance regarding full-year of 2013 and 2014, which resulted in a panic-triggered sell-off in the company's shares. Should you back the truck up and load up on Ford's shares based on the recent weakness?
I am cautiously optimistic on Ford's shares and I added to my existing shares with some call options. On the other hand, I am not extremely bullish like I was in the summer of 2012 when Ford bottomed at $8s. Don't get me wrong, I still see a lot of upside in Ford, I just don't think the company's share price will be doubling in the next year.
Ford's new guidance
So, what was so bad in Ford's new guidance that led to a sell-off? There was really nothing that surprising or shocking in the company's updated guidance. Ford's management announced that the full-year results for the total company would be roughly in line with the past guidance. However, there were certain challenges faced by the company in specific geographic locations, particularly North America and South America. In North America, the culprit was Ford's small SUV, Escape. This year's Ford Escape was recalled a total of 7 times for different issues and the expenses associated with these recalls will be around $250-$300 million. This may reduce Ford's operating margin toward the lower end of the 9.5%-10.0% guidance. However, the company's North American business is still expected to generate at least $8.3 billion (closer to $8.5 billion for the entire company across the world) in pre-tax profits for 2013. This is in line with last year's numbers. In South America, the culprit seems to be Venezuela, which has been the case for the last couple years. In Venezuela, the currency fluctuations and economic uncertainty seem to undermine Ford's profitability. Ford expects to reach breakeven in South America due to the issues in Venezuela.
Pension situation is improving
On a positive note, Ford's pension plan is underfunded by only $10 billion. During 2013, Ford made significant contributions to its pension plan and the good market conditions allowed for better discount rates, which reduced the amount the company has to contribute in order to close the gap. As the rate of fixed-income items in Ford's portfolio increased from 55% to 70% between last year and this year (with a goal of 80%), the company's portfolio is expected to be less volatile and easier to manage. Furthermore, 35,000 people took Ford's lump sum offer and the settlement was as large as $4.2 billion, representing 37% of the eligible employees and 25% of the associated liability. This settlement is expected to save Ford a lot of cash in the long run as pension obligations continue to be one of the biggest expense items for the company. In the next 3 years, Ford will have to contribute $1 to $2 billion to its pension obligations, down from an earlier projection of $2-3 billion.
Growth continues
Due to the recovery in the North American market and successes in the Asian market, Ford will be able to post a revenue growth of 10% in 2013 compared to 2012 when it posts its yearly results. The company expects the market to remain challenging in South America due to economic uncertainties, unknown policy outcomes and slower economic growth due to high interest rates. The shrinkage of the car market in Europe should slow down significantly or maybe even see a reverse turn during 2014 depending on how well the continent is able to recover. Ford expects the European economy to grow by 1% during the year even though some countries will grow at much faster/slower rates than others.
Ford will be launching 23 new models during the next year globally, which may be costly and cut into the company's margins in the short term. However, this will fuel more growth in the future. The company will have to be very careful with its future launches so that it doesn't have to recall a bunch of vehicles and leave money on the table. Recalls can be extremely expensive and they can eat a company's lunch in no time. This is one area Ford was doing very well until the Ford Escape incident.
We'll also have to watch Ford's incentives closely. In the last couple years, the North American car industry was able to sell as many cars as it could produce while cutting down on incentives. Towards the end of 2013, it looked like the incentives are coming back and this might be another trend cutting into Ford's margins. However, it's too early to tell at the moment.
It also looks like the rumors of Mr. Mulally's Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) move are winding down. We still don't know the details but it looks more likely that Mr. Mulally will be staying with Ford for another year. This is a great chance for Ford to continue implementing its one-Ford plan in Europe and elsewhere and continue to deliver profitable growth for all.
Ford's current valuation looks attractive. Currently Ford is trading for 7 times its pre-tax income. Despite all the pension contributions and dividend payments, Ford continues to be cash rich. Ford Automotive currently has $26.1 billion in gross cash, $15.8 billion in total debt and $10.3 billion in net cash. Excluding this figure gives Ford an ex-cash P/E of 6. In a market at all-time high levels, Ford remains to be one of the few companies with low valuation.
If you are thinking of long term and are interested in getting in Ford, this may be the good time to do so. I bought some long term calls after the last correction.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010712:51
SYMBOL = AMD
Advanced Micro Devices (NASDAQ:AMD) has seen its stock rally strongly in 2013, despite its mainstay PC market declining by ~10%. The company was facing decimation in the face of Intel's (NASDAQ:INTC) onslaught in the PC and server markets. The stock touched a nadir at $1.8 in 2012, as it faced liquidity issues due to a lack of profitability. The company management put a restructuring plan in place and that has started to bear fruit. It smartly won the processors in all the three major consoles and has also won the contract to supply its FirePro graphics cards to the world's largest technology company. These wins ensure that AMD will get a large amount of revenues in the future, removing the risk of bankruptcy. While the company continues to face big threats from semiconductor giants Intel and Qualcomm (NASDAQ:QCOM) in the tablet and PC processors, its diversification into custom made silicon and micro servers will help mitigate risks. The company is relying on its graphics expertise and low prices to push processors for the low end PC and tablet area. AMD's valuation continues to be quite low despite the 50% plus rally in 2013. I had advised investors to buy AMD in early 2013 and think that investors can continue to hold AMD for further gains.
Why AMD can Rally more
1) Big customer wins - AMD has won a number of important customers in the technology industry for its products in 2013. The company supplies silicon for all the major console makers such as Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT), Sony (NYSE:SNE) and Nintendo (OTCPK:NTDOF). AMD is going to benefit from the stronger than expected sales of Xbox One and PS4 which have sold 2 million units within days of their launch. Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) has chosen AMD's FirePro graphics card for its MacPro line, which further boosts AMD's credentials as a top semiconductor company. These design wins will ensure that AMD remains a viable player for a long time, dispelling potential bankruptcy risks.
2) Advanced SoCs for the tablet and PC market (Beema, Mullins) - AMD is going to introduce new processors for the tablet and low end PC segments in 2014. While Beema will be a successor of Temash and targeted towards tablets with 2-3 W TDP, Mullins will succeed Kabini to target the low end PC area. The advanced graphics integration in these two SOCs will help AMD differentiate the chips from the competition.
3) Calxeda Demise reduces ARM server competition - AMD purchased cloud microserver maker "SeaMicro" in 2012 for $334 million to enter this new fast growing dense server market. Dense servers connect a number of low power CPUs which reduces power and cost, without impacting processing power. While SeaMicro's interconnect "Freedom Fabric" uses Intel's processors, AMD is working on shifting SeaMicro's products to use AMD's processors. AMD plans to introduce microservers using its 64 bit Seattle chip in 2014. AMD will gain advantage, as the pioneer in the ARM microserver market Calxeda has gone bankrupt due to liquidity issues. This leaves only Applied Micro (NASDAQ:AMCC) as a major competitor in this field. Unlike other ARM vendors, AMD has got tremendous experience in designing and selling chips for the server market. While AMD management expects that ARM servers will not be a big revenue generator in the short term, it is going to capture 20% of the overall server market by 2017. Now it will take time. There is no question. 2014 is really about marketing, it's about design wins, it's about announcing where the market is going. Our passionate belief is that space by 2017, Hans will be in the region of 20% of the server market. I think the server market today is in region of 10 million units. It's an $11 billion market. You can apply the relevant growth rates, so that's we see the market. And again we believe that it's a market that we can win.
4) Cost Reduction and Decent Liquidity Position- AMD has been cutting costs ruthlessly in the last few years to adjust to a lower topline. The balance sheet has improved considerably as the management has decreased both operating and capital expenditure. The company reported $443 million in operating expenses this quarter, which was lower than the target of $450 million. The company has also reduced its capex forecast by 30% to $110 million in 2014.
Yeah. Vivek, if you look at the last one year, I think that was exactly what we said about a year ago about maintaining cash at $1.1 billion level well above the [back at] [ph] minimum. And as you have seen, despite a very challenging year that we have gone through, we have successfully maintained $1.1 billion of cash, without by the way getting any external financing.
5) Cheap value presents attractive acquisition target - AMD seems quite cheap to me compared to the IP portfolio that the company possesses. It has strengths in multiple areas such as graphics, x86 design, HSA etc. With a market capitalization of just $2.8 billion, one of the bigger companies such as Qualcomm, Samsung (OTC:SSNLF) or Apple can easily buy it to bolster their semiconductor expertise. Even Intel can look to buy the company as the growth of the mobile market may not invite the anti-trust regulator's scrutiny.
6) Great quarterly results - AMD's quarterly results improved dramatically in the current quarter, showing the strongest sequential growth in the last 5 years. The semi-custom silicon SoCs were the main driver for the increased revenues. There has been a huge pent up demand for next generation consoles which were released by both MSFT and Sony after a 7 year hiatus. The company posted $1.46 billion in revenues which was up 15% year on year.
Mobile market entry has become almost impossible for AMD - It has become imperative for all major technology companies to have a mobile strategy as smartphones and tablets become the main form factors in the computing world. AMD has got very little expertise in communications ability (2G to 4G LTE) which means that it has almost no way to compete in the smartphone market. Even Intel with its massive resources and acquisitions has not been able to match Qualcomm's communication leadership. The Snapdragon processor with integrated 4G LTE capability has become the de facto leader in the high end smartphone market.
Scale Issues - AMD has been sharply curtailing its operating expenditure to align with its shrinking revenue base. This means that the company has cut its R&D and capital expenditure to conserve cash. Its competitors such as Nvidia (NASDAQ:NVDA), Intel etc. are much larger than AMD with bigger R&D departments and marketing budgets. Intel has decided to sell 40 million tablets in 2014 by setting apart a massive fund for trade discounts and promotions. AMD is trying to enter/expand into multiple segments such as microservers, tablets, custom silicon, embedded devices etc. This may stretch its resources too thin.
Cannibalization of PC market by mobile devices - The PC and laptop market is declining at a faster pace than expected as mobile devices cannibalize the growth of their bigger cousins. The capabilities and feature of tablets and smartphones continue to increase, reducing the need for PCs/laptops. New form factors such as All in Ones (AIO), tablet-PC hybrids etc. have failed to find success as of now. AMD's past offerings for the tablet markets (Temash) have completely failed to get any meaningful design wins. The major players such as Intel and Qualcomm are going all out to capture this market. AMD's traditional low cost strategy will also fail to work as Intel is targeting the low end of the market.
Stock Performance and Valuation
AMD's stock has been one of the best performing semiconductor stocks in the last year, gaining more than 50% over the last year. The stock is trading ~15% below its 52 week high at $4, as the stock has pulled back a bit in recent months. AMD has clearly outperformed Qualcomm, Intel and Nvidia in the last one year as extremely cheap valuation helped boost the stock. AMD continues to be cheap with a P/S of just 0.6x, which is quite low compared to the average P/S multiple of semiconductor stocks. Analysts expect the company to be profitable in 2014.
AMD has done extremely well in 2013 to turn around its operations in multiple segments. As AMD entered 2013, the company was losing market share in both PCs and graphics segments to Intel and Nvidia respectively. As the company enters 2014, it will offset PC revenue decline from the strong growth in game console shipments and will gain market share in the professional GPU segment from its Apple MacPro win. AMD also has a good opportunity to grab leadership in the ARM microserver area with the bankruptcy of Calxeda. While I don't think AMD can make much headway in the super competitive mobile processor area, the stock may be boosted if it can get some design wins through its APU processors. I continue to remain positive on AMD based on improved operations, cheap valuations and potential for growth.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010713:24
SYMBOL = JMBA
Investors in Jamba Juice (NASDAQ:JMBA) have seen tough times in recent years and the start of 2014 is not promising as well. A downgrade from analysts at Wedbush overshadowed the positive news from the company itself, announcing further growth in the Middle-East and offering menu innovations.
Wedbush Turns Cautious On Jamba
Analyst Kurt Frederick lowered the rating on Jamba from Outperform to Neutral. Frederick lowered the price target by $2 to $13 per share, suggesting a limited 8-9% upside from current levels.
There are a few reasons for the cautiousness. Frederick cites negative impacts of cold weather and increased competition as major reasons behind the downgrade. Jamba reported same store sales declines of 3.4% in the third quarter, on poor weather, slower consumer spending and less impact of promotions.
Temperatures in the key Californian market in the fourth quarter remain cooler as well, while promotions which drove traffic last year were not repeated in the final months of 2013.
On top of this comes increased competition from names like Robek's, Smoothie King and Tropical Smoothie Cafe. These firms cut franchise fees significantly to aggressively grow locations in the coming years. Robek is expected to grow from 200 locations to 500 locations, while Smoothie King will increase from 650 locations to an expected 1,000 locations in five year's time.
Jamba has a solid pipeline, expected to add 60-80 stores per annum, offset by store closures and sales to a degree. Following the expansion plans, the companies outlined above become and remain formidable competitors. As such, the overall industry growth could pressure sales growth and margin, as Jamba has to fight for market share.
On Friday, Jamba Juice came with some upbeat comments itself, as investors listened more to the cautious Wedbush take. The company entered into a master franchise agreement with Foodmark to develop 80 Jamba Juice stores in the Middle-East in the coming ten years.
This deal brings the pipeline commitment to 480 international stores, while management believes there is room for 1,500 stores. The company operated 849 Jamba Juice stores at October of 2013, with the 80 new additions marking noticeable growth going forwards.
At the same time, the company expanded its menu of smoothies and fresh juices with whole food ingredients. The introduction of these healthy offerings has been accompanied by a $2 coupon offer over the past weekend to induce demand for the new offerings.
A Look At The Past
Jamba Juice's shareholders have seen very poor long term returns. Shares approached $60 in 2006 but fell to lows of just $2 in 2008. In 2008, the company posted a $149 million net loss on misaligned store growth as the operational problems resulted in a 8.1% decline in comparable store sales.
This disaster was followed by the turnaround between 2009 and 2011 with capital infusions, menu expansion, store restorations and the focus abroad. As such, comparable store sales recovered to 5.1% in 2012 with margins expanding, allowing the company to return to break-even.
Jamba Juices Focus On Health And Global
In a presentation held just last month Jamba Juice outlined the strategy for the future. The company aims to create a globally recognized healthy lifestyle brand, accelerating growth and building a plus $1 billion lifestyle brand.
The company founded back in 1990 welcomes over a 100 million visitors making it the leader in smoothies, while looking to expand its number four position in the healthy food segment. At the moment, the business has just 42 international locations, representing roughly 5% of its total 849 stores footprint. As such, significant growth potential remains.
With the financial and strategic turnaround having found place in 2009-2011 period, all eyes are on the acceleration of growth, seen in the period 2012-2015. Key parts include expense reduction, beverage as well as food offerings to better use assets, accelerate development of stores and build a licensing growth platform.
As such Jamba will focus on its healthy image, provide food and smoothies both for breakfast and dinner, and look to operate in 7-9 foreign countries by 2015. Another appealing concept is the Jamba-Go concept which essentially is the installation of vendor machines. This does not require capital investments, nor adds to overheads but brings in revenue of around $2,000 per machine based on the razor/blade model. Some 1,800 machines are installed at the moment, with another 1,000 installations planned for 2014. The revenues from these are consequently seen at a modest $5-$6 million this year.
The past few years have been difficult. Between the calendar year of 2009 and 2012, Jamba reported a cumulative 24% decline in annual revenues to $228.8 million. After reporting losses of $24 million in 2009, the company essentially broke even in 2012. As revenues are expected to stagnate in 2013, probability might improve a little bit.
Looking into 2014, Jamba expects to deliver 2-4% growth in comparable sales in the company's owned stores. Income from operations are seen at 2-3%.
Implications For Investors
While Jamba Juice claims it is making progress and will show a turnaround in 2012-2015, I am not convinced just like analysts at Wedbush.
At this pace, Jamba is on track to report very limited earnings of a few million for 2013 on expected revenues of around $225-$230 million. Around $12 per share, the market values Jamba at $200 million, or operating assets at $170 million when subtracting the net cash position of Jamba.
While this valuation is limited, at 0.7 times annual revenues, Jamba is structurally reporting poor earnings. While international expansion, same store sales growth and the Go franchise might boost earnings, I see limited potential for significant profit improvement in the short term.
While the start of 2014 will be rough given the cold weather, menu innovations could improve the situation. that being said, Wedbush's identified competitive pressure are on the rise as well, limiting my optimism for the shares. Given the dismal valuation, limited is expected at the moment. To fuel optimistic and share price gains going forward, the market should be able to expect earnings north of $10 million per annum going forwards, something not attainable yet in 2014 in my opinion.
Therefore I remain subdued about the prospects of the shares into 2014, keeping a close eye whether menu innovations can indeed improve the prospects for earnings going forwards.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010713:33
SYMBOL = GE
General Electric (NYSE:GE) continues to make bolt-on acquisitions to fortify its industrial business empire, this time focusing on its healthcare unit. For a little over a billion, it will acquire promising technologies for diagnostics and manufacturing of new medications.
The deal makes perfect sense from a strategic point of view and marks the next deal in the continued transformation process of the business.
GE continues to be a nice long term investment, supported by an attractive dividend yield exceeding 3%, competing with returns on long term Treasury bonds. The company remains a nice addition for any long term dividend oriented portfolio.
Continuing The Acquisition Streak
General Electric started 2014 by announcing yet another acquisition after making several deals last year. For a sum of $1.06 billion, the healthcare unit of the business will acquire Thermo Fisher's (NYSE:TMO) Hyclone cell culture media and sera, gene modulation and magnetic beads business.
With the deal, GE can expand offerings and technologies for discovery and manufacturing of new medicines, vaccines and diagnostics in the life science business.
The gene modulation business complements GE's current technologies as well as extending its technologies in protein analysis and medical diagnostics. While little is known about the profitability of the unit, note that the deal was a forced sale. Thermo Fisher agreed to sell the unit in order to get European regulatory approval following a nearly $13 billion deal to buy Life Technologies.
GE's healthcare unit includes the $4 billion life sciences business which is one of the fastest growing areas as the world demands better, newer and safer medicines. The increased offerings will reduce time-to-market for biotechnology companies, as GE will offer a further range of "start-to-finish" technologies. GE furthermore announced that the three acquired businesses reported revenues of $250 million in 2013, valuing operations at 4.2 times annual revenues.
Impact On Healthcare
Note that the deal is of a highly strategic nature. The reported $250 million in revenues are just a drop in the bucket. GE's healthcare unit could generate annual revenues of $17.5 billion in 2013 as total industrial revenues alone could approach the $100 billion mark. The unit generates roughly 18% of GE's industrial revenues so far into the third quarter, making up a similar percentage of operating earnings.
These acquired innovative tools match GE's overall strategy to focus on technology and innovation. Within healthcare it already operates the Centricity 360 cloud imaging tool which runs in the cloud, focused on image storing and advanced analytics. The segment is expected to report $2 billion in revenues by 2018, growing at 25% per annum.
Company Wide Operational Strategy..
Back in December, GE gave a big presentation about the future strategy, while providing an immediate outlook for 2014 as well. By 2015, some 70% of the company's earnings should come from the industrial segment, while GE is slowly winding its capital business down.
The guided 4-7% growth in industrial revenues is affected by the wind down of the capital business, resulting in a total revenue guidance of 0-5% growth for 2014. Expected margins of 15.8% in 2013 are set to rise in 2014 making them on track to achieve the 17% target by 2016.
Yet the major driver comes from cost control, with selling, general and administrative costs seeing down from 15.5-16.0% at the moment to 12% by 2016. Increased R&D efforts, among others, prevent the one-on-one translation in operating margin gains.
Note that Immelt is not afraid to take measures. In 2013, GE announced the sale of its stake in NBC to Comcast (NASDAQ:CMCSA) in a nearly $17 billion deal, while it announced its intentions to sell the consumer lending business, in a deal expected to take place in 2014. The company did strengthen its industrial business in the meantime with the acquisitions of Lufkin and Avio Aero, strengthening the major segments of the industrial complex one by one.
..And The financial strategy
While GE is making progress focusing on the industrial base of the company, the transformation is painful to watch for investors. Revenue gains in the industrial business are largely made undone by the shrinking of the Capital business, keeping overall operations stable. Yet shareholders are reaping some gains now, mostly thanks to freed up capital and the higher multiples being attached to the industrial business, given the greater visibility of its earnings.
Still the progress for investors has been painful, with GE unlike many other industrial conglomerates such as Honeywell (NYSE:HON), and 3M (NYSE:MMM), is still trading far below its highs of $60 set in 2000. In comparison, investors in the latter two companies have seen all time highs in 2013.
To please investors somewhat, the company has resorted on providing operational growth through bolt-on acquisitions, like the activities acquired from Thermo Fisher. Further returns have to come from repurchases, as GE aims to buy back some 5% of its shares outstanding in the coming years. The recent 16% hike in the dividend to $0.22 per share, provides investors with a decent yield of 3.2% as well.
As can be seen from the capital allocation plans, GE remains committed to return the majority of capital allocation, seen around a cumulative $90 billion in the period 2014-2016, back to shareholders. This is done through repurchases and dividends, seen at around $20 billion per annum combined.
Despite the nice come back from the dramatic lows of $6 in 2009 when Warren Buffett needed to come to the rescue, GE's CEO Jeff Immelt is still under pressure.
Even as shares rose 30% in 2013, investors have lost a great deal of value since he took helmet at the top role back in 2000, with shares being cut in half ever since after the capital business nearly sunk the entire business during the crisis.
While Immelt is the one to blame for the Capital business fiasco he has been taking big steps in transforming the business. The problem is that GE is so large, that it is not that easy to turn around with a few quick fixes in a few years' time.
As Immelt remains associated to the capital business disaster, the market is probably still happy to see him go, and his departure could result in a new boost to the stock. Yet I warn for overly optimistic projections as his current strategy is viable and I doubt any other executive could create much more imminent value for GE now replacing him.
Takeaway For Investors
The acquisition of the healthcare activities of Thermo-Fisher once more underlies GE's strategy of making bolt-on acquisitions in the industrial segment, focusing on margins, organic growth and R&D.
The industrial business holds relatively little debt, operating with a modest net debt position of around $2 billion. Overall, GE is expected to reported annual revenues of around $144 billion for 2013, while reporting earnings of around $14 billion on that. Trading around $27.50 per share, the business is valued at nearly $280 billion. This leaves little potential for short term capital gains, with shares trading at 20 times earnings.
The dividend yield of 3.2% does remain attractive, competing with returns on 10-year treasuries. While the long term growth prospects remain attractive, but don't buy into GE now for a quick buck.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010714:01
SYMBOL = BP
Gulf of Mexico: Continues to be the basis of growth
BP plc. (NYSE:BP) along with ConocoPhillips (NYSE:COP) recently discovered an oil reservoir in the Gulf of Mexico. This discovery was made in the Gila prospect, which is about 300 miles southwest of New Orleans at a depth of around 4,900 feet. The depth of drilling is approximately 29,000 feet. This is the third reservoir discovery by BP and fourth reservoir for ConocoPhillips in the Paleogene system, also known as Lower Tertiary as well as the lower tertiary fields. BP owns around 80% of the Gila field, with ConocoPhillips owning the rest.
BP's two other deepwater reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico are Kaskida (with around 3 billion barrels of oil reserves in place) and Tiber (estimated to have 4 billion to 6 billion barrels of oil in place). Oil reservoirs such as these are important for BP to continue its production growth and replace depleting resources. BP will assess the resource potential of the Gila reservoirs in the coming quarters. The cost per well is in the range of $100 million and an additional $1 million per day to operate. BP plans to spend around $4 billion a year in the Gulf of Mexico over the next decade. In spending around $4 billion, I expect that BP could drill around 40 wells in the region in 2014. This amount of spending in its Gulf of Mexico exploration program will enable BP to develop its acreage there.
BP continues to strengthen its position in the Gulf of Mexico in other ways as well. It is the leading leaseholder and oil producer in the region and has nine rigs operating there. The Lower Tertiary field where the Gila reservoir was discovered is expected to contain around 15 billion barrels of oil. Other explorers in this formation are Exxon Mobil (NYSE:XOM), Chevron (NYSE:CVX), and Royal Dutch Shell (NYSE:RDS.A) (NYSE:RDS.B). To successfully drill at pressures of around 20,000 psi, BP initiated Project 20K. This program will develop new designs of rigs, risers, and blowout preventers that will operate at a pressure of 20,000 psi. Currently, the oil-and-gas drilling industry's capacity is to drill at depths with pressures of around 15,000 psi. The successful outcome of Project 20K is more likely to help BP drill safely at huge depths such as in Gila and similar reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico.
Pushing in the Middle East
BP entered an agreement with the government of the Sultanate of Oman in December for gas sales and the full field development of the Khazzan field. The full field development will include drilling of around 300 wells with a peak production capacity of around 1 billion cubic feet per day, or bcfpd, and 25,000 barrels per day of gas condensate. This development project is a joint venture between BP (60%) and Oman Oil Company Exploration & Production, or OOCEP (40%), with total spending of around $16 billion. Development of the field will start in 2014, with the first gas production to begin in late 2017. In the joint venture BP will use technology to extract tight gas from the Khazzan field. The project is expected to develop around 7 trillion cubic feet, or tcf, of gas. The Khazzan is one of the most challenging oil-and-gas fields in Oman with well depths reaching 15,000 feet. BP has been working in the Khazzan field, having already invested around $1.5 billion there.
Price is important in developing a tight gas formation. While the government plans to increase gas prices, the gas price at which the BP's deal is made is undisclosed. In Oman, the natural-gas price for industrial customers is expected to increase to around $3 per million British thermal unit, or mbtu, by 2015 from around 1.5 per mbtu in 2012, as the Omani government plans to reduce the natural-gas subsidy. Over the life of the project of 15 years, BP plans to develop around 7 trillion cubic feet, or tcf of gas. At a conservative assumption of a natural-gas price of $3 per mbtu, 7 tcf of gas would be valued at $21.11 trillion. This amount of gas production is likely to add significant value for BP in the coming quarters.
Demand will largely determine natural-gas development in Oman. Use of natural gas has been on the rise. Natural-gas usage for industrial projects in Oman during the first half of 2013 was around 56% of Oman's total natural-gas consumption, which grew by around 5.1% during the first half of 2013 to 19,308 million cubic meters. The increasing domestic consumption of natural gas within the country has been met by reducing exports. Increased consumption remains one of the main drivers in the growth of natural-gas production and investment into tight gas technologies.
Bold steps into the future
BP has been true to its objective of increasing production reserve. In 2012, BP had a replacement ratio of 77%, meaning the company replaced less than the depletion of its oil-and-gas reserve. Generally an oil company aims for a replacement ratio of more than 100%. The company's discovery of the Gila field and development of the Khazzan field is a step to improve its replacement ratio. BP's focus to maintain its leading position in the Gulf of Mexico will give the company an advantage over the other oil companies in the region. Further, to help in the ongoing exploration in the Gulf of Mexico, BP has committed to the development of technology that will enable such future exploration. With large reserve potential and technological advancements BP is likely to maintain its lead in Gulf of Mexico deepwater drilling.
BP is also introducing tight gas technologies into the Khazzan fields of Oman. Having huge reserve potential, this field is likely to boost the production output of natural gas in Oman and also of BP, but natural-gas demand remains strong in Oman. The price of gas is critical for the success and longevity of tight gas projects, and recent pricing decisions of natural gas by the government in Oman is likely to lend a conducive environment in the coming quarters.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010714:16
SYMBOL = PM
Increasing efforts to get better results from the e-cigarette market
The popularity of e-cigarettes has increased from thousands in the year 2006 to several millions worldwide today. Philip Morris (NYSE:PM) is capitalizing on the growing market for e-cigarettes, and has established a strategic framework with Altria Group (NYSE:MO) to commercialize its e-cigarette products. According to the agreement, both Philip Morris and Altria will capitalize on the tobacco users' growing awareness of less harmful products, and will complement each other to enhance the distribution of their unconventional cigarettes. Moreover, Altria will provide Philip Morris with a license to sell its newly introduced e-cigarette products internationally. On the other hand, Philip Morris will make two of its next-generation reduced-risk tobacco products, available to Altria for sale in the U.S.
Both the companies will also co-operate on regulatory engagements related to the product in the U.S. and in international markets. The new products launched by Philip Morris and Altria will be subject to approval by the U.S. Food and Drug administration, or FDA. Both the companies will work together to provide the information that would be required by the FDA to assess and approve these products. To enhance the reach of their respective reduced risk products, and e-cigarettes, both Philip Morris and Altria are making innovations in the nicotine delivery systems that are less harmful to the customers. Altria is continuing with its objective to develop a strong portfolio of innovative products that will meet adult tobacco consumers' preferences while, Philip Morris, focused on developing an e-cigarette that heats, rather than burns tobacco, producing less tar and smoke. Philip Morris' announcement to enter the e-cigarette business, can give some relief, since the company witnessed a 5.3% decline, year-over-year in the cigarette shipment for the first nine months of 2013. This deal will help Philip Morris to diversify beyond the traditional cigarette business in which it is witnessing consistent problems of tax increases, health concerns, and smoking bans.
Will the e-cigarette business give significant returns?
Despite making some useful efforts in making less harmful tobacco products, Philip Morris's move came quite late as compared with its peers. In November, 2013, Imperial Tobacco (OTCQX:ITYBY) announced that 2014 would be an important year for the company as it is looking for innovation for the products closely similar to tobacco, including the e-cigarettes. With this Imperial Tobacco is seeking some new customer opportunities in 2014. In 2013 Imperial Tobacco bought assets of Dragonite, which was the original e-cigarette inventor company. Apart from Imperial Tobacco, British American Tobacco (NYSEMKT:BTI) also made some significant efforts to enter the e-cigarette business. In July, 2013, British American launched its Vype e-cigarette in the U.K. The product is available online, and is expanding to retail outlets.
Philip Morris is also expected to face stiff competition from Lorillard (NYSE:LO) and Reynolds American (NYSE:RAI), the prominent competitors to Philip Morris in the U.S., and which has already entered the e-cigarette business. Reynolds American introduced a revamped version of their e-cigarette Vuse in 2013. Moreover, Vuse e-cigarette will also be showcased during the 2014 consumer electronics show.
In 2013, Lorillard was the first U.S. company to introduce the e-cigarette in the market. Lorillard's Blu is one of the best-selling e-cigarettes in the United States, and one of prominent e-cigarette brand sold by the U.S convenience stores. However, Lorillard could not convert the increasing popularity of its e-cigarette brand in the financial results. Lorillard's e-cigarette gross margin declined from 37% in the first quarter of 2013 to 32% in the second quarter, and 24% in the third quarter. Moreover, the company witnessed decline in the e-cigarettes earnings report and operating margin since it couldn't make a profit from the segment in the third quarter. This indicates that enhanced competition for the e-cigarette business can affect Philip Morris in the long run as e-cigarette market is very fragmented. According to Forbes's article, there are more than 300 e-cigarette companies and the top three have 85% of the market. The chart below shows the leading e-cigarette brands in the U.S.
With already established prominent players, and big players introducing their respective e-cigarette products, the competition will be tough for Philip Morris. Moreover, recent approval by the New York city council to ban smoking e-cigarettes in offices, restaurants, bars, and parks can be followed by other U.S. cities also. The competitive and legal environment of the e-cigarette business does not seem encouraging.
Still a lucrative stock for income investors
Philip Morris has always given good returns to income investors. With 4.38% trailing twelve months, or TTM dividend yield, Philip Morris is one of the lucrative stocks for income investors. The company has announced a quarterly dividend of $0.94 on December 11, 2013, which is to be payable on January 10, 2014. This represents annualized dividends of $3.76, a 16% rise from the annualized dividends paid by the company in 2012. Moreover, the company is generating enough profits and free cash flows, of which considerable portion is paid as dividends.
While going through the above table, we can infer that Philip Morris has ensured consistent returns for its shareholders out of profits and free cash flows, but apart from dividends, the company also made consistent share buybacks. In the first-three quarters of 2013, Philip Morris has returned around $5.21 billion with its sale purchase of stock activities to the investors. Along with this, dividends of around $4.2 billion were paid for the same period. With this shareholder yield of Philip Morris comes at around 6.7%. This indicates that investors of Philip Morris do not have to depend upon stock returns only.
Peer comparison
Altria Group has also ensured consistent dividend payments to its shareholders. Its TTM dividend yield stands at 5.10% and its TTM dividend payout ratio stands at about 69%. For the first-three quarters of 2013, the company witnessed cash outflows of around $382 million with its sale purchase of stock activities. For the same period, the dividend payments from the company accounted for around $2.65 billion cash outflow. With this, the shareholder yield of Altria stands at around 4.4%, which was less than Philip Morris.
On the other hand, the TTM dividend yield of Reynolds American stands at 5.1% and its TTM dividend payout ratio stands at 75%. For the first three quarters of 2013, Reynolds American paid dividends and entered into share selling and repurchasing activities, which led to cumulative cash outflow of $1.61 billion. With this, the shareholder yield of Reynolds American comes at around 6.1%, which is slightly less than Philip Morris' 6.7%.
Lorillard is also a consistent dividend payer; its TTM dividend yield stands at 4.40% very close to that of Philip Morris's 4.38%. In the first three quarter of 2013, Lorillard paid back $621 million in the form of dividends, and $566 million in the form of share purchase and selling activities. In total the company paid $1.18 billion to its investors, and the shareholder yield of the company stands at 7.15%. This suggests that shareholder yield of Philip Morris, and its peers suggest that overall the cigarette industry is quite lucrative for income investors.
Comparative Valuation
With good dividend prospects, the recent performances for companies engaged in tobacco industry have been positive.
Based on valuation multiples, Philip Morris is undervalued with respect to Price/Sales and Price/Cash flow. With respect to P/E, the company is slightly overvalued in comparison to Altria, Lorillard, and industry average.
Philip Morris' performance in the e-cigarette business can be judged later in 2014, since it is at an inception stage, but the stock promises a lot to the income investors. The investors can invest in this stock to ensure steady returns in the form of dividends.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010714:24
SYMBOL = COP
Greenland has potential for further discovery of oil and natural gas. According to estimates, around 13% of the world's conventional oil reservoirs and 35% of the conventional natural-gas reservoir lie in this region. In fact, the Arctic region is estimated to contain around 90 billion barrels of oil, 1,669 trillion cubic feet of gas, and 44 billion barrels of natural-gas liquids. Of the 412 billion barrels of oil equivalent, or bboe, around 84% is expected to be in the offshore regions. This immense reserve potential is an incentive for ConocoPhillips (NYSE:COP) to explore in the Arctic region, where Greenland has significant access.
To capitalize on this, the company just secured a key exploration licence in the region. In December, a consortium led by ConocoPhillips, Statoil (NYSE:STO) and Nunaoil was awarded a 16-year licence to explore north-eastern Greenland. Statoil has a 52.5% stake in this partnership, ConocoPhillips a 35% stake, and Nunaoil the rest. Nunaoil is the national oil company of Greenland and holds interest in all exploration blocks in the region.
An important aspect of the exploration program for ConocoPhillips is that it has Statoil as a partner. Statoil has been operating in the Norwegian continental shelf, which is located closer to the Arctic exploration region, and has a success rate there over the last five years of 70% compared to the industry rate of 49%. The company plans to extend its drilling experience in the Norwegian continental shelf to drill in the Arctic region and will likely provide its technical expertise of drilling in the Arctic region to the partnership with ConocoPhillips.
The following chart shows Greenland's position in terms of oil and natural gas reserves in the Arctic region.
In addition to the Arctic region's reserve potential, the government in Greenland has pushed for exploration drilling to gain economic independence. This focus on exploration has resulted in the increase in oil and natural gas licenses, which are issued by the Bureau of Minerals and Petroleum. The following chart shows the trend in licence grants.
As can be seen from the chart above, exploration licenses have increased since 2006. This increase is likely to create competition in the exploration programs. As such, ConocoPhillips has made a timely entry in oil-and-gas exploration in the Arctic region.
One more in the Gulf of Mexico
ConocoPhillips and BP plc. (NYSE:BP) together announced the discovery of the Gila reservoir in the Gulf of Mexico. BP and ConocoPhillips have stakes in the reservoir of 80% and 20%, respectively. This is the fourth discovery of ConocoPhillips from the Lower Tertiary of the Gulf of Mexico region and the third for BP. The drilling depth of the Gila field is approximately 29,000 feet. One advantage for ConocoPhillips is that BP is the leading operator in the Gulf of Mexico region. BP has nine rigs operating in the region and has also initiated Project 20K, which is aimed at drilling at pressures of 20,000 psi. This program will develop new designs for rigs, risers, blowout preventers, and other equipment that are likely to operate at huge depths. So the partnership also provides a technological advantage to ConocoPhillips.
ConocoPhillips has three other reservoirs -- Tiber, Shenandoah, and Coronado -- in the Lower Tertiary region in the Gulf of Mexico. This discovery of the Gila reservoir will help ConocoPhillps further build up its acreage position and drilling inventory in the region. ConocoPhillips has more than 2.5 million net acres there with major operations in the Lower Tertiary region. The Lower Tertiary region is estimated to have around 15 billion barrels of oil. The Shenandoah field in which ConocoPhillips has 31% of working interest is expected to hold more than 300 million barrels of oil; Tiber in which ConocoPhillips has around 18% is estimated to have 4 billion to 6 billion barrels of oil in place. Thus, these fields in the Lower Tertiary will build up a large inventory for ConocoPhillips in the coming quarters.
With an eye keeping firm on its target
ConocoPhillips' venture for Arctic oil and natural gas could give the company an advantage through early entry in the exploration program in that region. In addition, the company's joint venture with Statoil will provide a technical advantage, increasing the probability of successful exploration. Also, the company's new discovery of the Gila reservoir is likely to propel growth of hydrocarbon production in the coming quarters. Finally, the partnership with BP is going to provide ConocoPhillips with a technological edge compared to other operators in the region.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010714:42
SYMBOL = BBBY
As home goods retailer Bed Bath & Beyond (NASDAQ:BBBY) comes out with its Q3 fiscal 2013 results on January 8, we expect it to sustain its steady growth momentum. (Fiscal years end with February.) Backed by its strong market position and an improving housing industry, the retailer's comparable store sales have increased by 3.7% and 3.4%, respectively, during the last two quarters.
The recovery in the housing market remained strong and steady during the recently concluded quarter, no doubt benefiting Bed Bath & Beyond. Moreover, since the insolvency of Linens 'n Things, Bed Bath & Beyond has been the market leader with limited competition from other players. It has served as a primary destination for customers looking for home decor products, which will continue to benefit the company. However, Bed Bath & Beyond's weakness in the online channel could be easily exploited by players such as Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN) and Williams-Sonoma (NYSE:WSM).
All in all, we are expecting to see steady growth in Bed Bath & Beyond's Q3 results. During its last quarter's earnings call, the company had projected 1%-3% comparable store sales growth for the recently concluded quarter. [1] We will thus soon see if they made their bogey. We are also eager to hear any commentary they provide on the holiday selling season that falls in the fiscal fourth quarter.
Our price estimate for Bed Bath & Beyond stands at $80, which is inline with the market price.
Housing Market Recovery Should Boost Sales
The ongoing recovery in the U.S. housing market continued in the December quarter of 2013, as sales of new homes improved significantly. In October and November, the number of new homes sold increased by more than 20% year over year to 968,000 driven by strong consumer confidence and low mortgage rates. [2] [3]
Consumers have been spending more on houses this year in order to take advantage of low interest rates. They have also been comfortable in spending more on home-related goods. This is evident from the fact that home improvement retailer Home Depot (NYSE:HD) reported a 7.4% rise in third quarter sales on a strong housing recovery. Bed Bath & Beyond has enjoyed this trend over the past few quarters as well.
Strong Market Position Will Help
Bed Bath & Beyond enjoys a strong position in the U.S. retail market with its broad selection of products and decentralized management culture. Through its different businesses such as World Market stores and Christmas Tree shops, the retailer offers a wide range of home furnishing and decorative products that might not be easy to find in any other store. Since customers shop for such products occasionally, the quality, variety and shopping experience become important. Bed Bath & Beyond enjoys strength on all these fronts.
Moreover, the retailer's decentralized management culture enables it to better serve its customers by offering products in accordance to the regional tastes. This culture leverages the knowledge, independence and customer focus of the store associates to respond efficiently to market demand. Therefore, U.S. buyers are likely to prefer Bed Bath & Beyond over other retailers for their home furnishing needs.
However, Weak E-Commerce Channel Brings Competition Into Picture
Historically, Bed Bath & Beyond hasn't focused too much on its online channel with a belief that its business is more about the store shopping experience. Although the company is now looking to revamp its e-commerce business, it still accounts for just 3% of total revenues. Due to this, not only is Bed Bath & Beyond missing out on a substantial growth opportunity, but is also facing stiff competition from strong online players such as Amazon.
According to research by Placed, Bed Bath & Beyond faces the biggest threat of showrooming from Amazon. [4] Showrooming refers to the phenomenon where shoppers browse products at stores, compare their prices online and shop at a website that offers similar products at cheaper prices. This puts Bed Bath & Beyond's store traffic at great risk. Also, due to a weak e-commerce channel, it becomes difficult for the specialty retailer to compete in the online channel. Additionally, Bed Bath & Beyond's competitor Williams-Sonoma earns close to 40% of its revenues from the online channel, which suggests that it offers a better product variety over the Internet. Hence, Bed Bath & Beyond's competitive advantage somewhat diminishes over the Internet.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010714:47
SYMBOL = NVDA
Nvidia (NASDAQ:NVDA) made headlines last year by demonstrating the world's fastest processor, Tegra 4, which the company claimed to be more powerful than any other available chip. This was seen as an important move towards reviving its Tegra business after the company's Tegra 3 lost design wins to Qualcomm's (NASDAQ:QCOM) Snapdragon processors.
Nvidia has not gained a presence in the mobile processor market and therefore has remained a graphics chip-concentrated company. Looking at the Tegra outlook, however, Nvidia may finally gain considerable share in mobile computing. Nvidia delayed the launch of the Tegra 4 processor by one month to speed up the launch of its first LTE System on Chip, or SoC Tegra 4i. This is a good move, as the LTE smartphone market is growing, with much opportunity for Nvidia. Though this move led to Nvidia's design losses, the company is on track to ship its Tegra 4i chip by the first quarter of this year, while its next-generation Tegra mobile processor, code-named Logan (probably Tegra 5), is also expected to come soon after Tegra 4i. This processor is based on the Kepler architecture GPU, which is used by Nvidia in desktops and therefore will provide high graphics to a mobile device.
Nvidia's growth plans for its Tegra processor will face stiff competition. Its LTE SoC will compete against dominant market leader Qualcomm, while new entrant Intel (NASDAQ:INTC) and upcoming player Broadcom (NASDAQ:BRCM) will add to the competition.
Qualcomm's third-generation LTE solutions enabled the company to take an extensive lead over other chip manufacturers, which are still launching their LTE products. The company is about to launch a fourth-generation LTE modem based on a 20-nanometer, or nm, manufacturing process and will provide download speed of up to 300 Mbps due to carrier aggregation. While Intel has recently launched its multi-mode LTE modem XMM 7160, which supports 15 LTE bands, the company is yet to launch an integrated LTE SoC. On the other hand, Broadcom recently won a Samsung design for its upcoming LTE SoC. After acquiring Renesas's LTE assets, the company quickly progressed in its LTE plans, with dual LTE SoC being shipped in the upcoming Samsung handset during the first quarter of this year.
Therefore, it will be difficult for Nvidia to win new designs in this competitive market, although the company has developed a strong Tegra product pipeline to capitalize on the new market opportunities and grow its market presence in mobile computing. In addition to Tegra 4i and Tegra 5, the company will also introduce its first 64-bit architecture processor, code-named Parker, which contains Nvidia's upcoming Maxwell GPU series. Sixty-four-bit chips are a new market in mobile devices, with Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL), the first to launch a 64-bit A7 chip powering its iPhone 5s. It's thus a good opportunity for Nvidia to increase market share by targeting new markets and thereby remain competitive. This will boost the Tegra segment revenue and help generate a return on the development expenses incurred by Tegra processors. Nvidia has incurred exorbitant expenses on this processor and therefore is losing money on it. For fiscal year 2013, and nine months of fiscal year 2014, the Tegra processor segment's operating loss was $157.92 million and $407.69 million, respectively. Although it will take time to break even and maintain profitability, given the potential revenue generation of the new Tegra processor launch, the company should eventually achieve its target.
It will also help increase the revenue contribution of the Tegra processor to the company's top line. Nvidia's Tegra processor segment contributed 9% of total revenue for the nine months ending Oct 27, 2013. Going forward, the Tegra processor's contribution will be important for Nvidia's growth and significantly affect its top line in the long run.
Important move for targeting tablet market
Nvidia recently announced its biggest update to its reference tablet platform, Tegra Note 7. The company doesn't manufacture and sell Tegra Note, instead providing a platform designed on Nvidia's products to its partners, which can further add to this reference design and sell under their brand name. The company has provided an update by adding features such as support of the latest Android 4.3 operating system, an enhanced stylus feature (support for left handed users), and an always-on high-dynamic range, or AOHDR, capability camera, which helps take real-time snaps without much processing time.
These added features will enable current users of Tegra Note to provide their customers enhanced features, thus increasing the user experience. In addition, it will also enable Tegra Note 7 users to remain competitive in the market with their updated designs.
Graphics remain key to Nvidia's growth
The overall graphics outlook looks solid with the launch of next-generation GeForce series of graphics cards based on Maxwell. The graphics segment will remain important to Nvidia's growth in fiscal year 2015. It derives more than 80% of its revenue from the GPU segment and therefore a negative impact on its graphics business can adversely impact its top line. Nvidia had taken 64.5% share in overall shipments of graphics cards in the third quarter of 2013, while its biggest rival, Advanced Micro Devices (NASDAQ:AMD), had taken a 35.5% share. To gain market share, AMD launched two new series of Radeon graphics line R7 and R9, also called Hawaii chips. These chips were based on AMD's second-generation graphics Core Next architecture, and targets both performance gamers and lower-budget customers. These graphics lines will help AMD gain market share in 2014, until Nvidia's launch of its next line of GeForce graphics card based on Maxwell architecture. Reports suggest that the company will start shipping these GPU during the first quarter of fiscal year 2015. Maxwell architecture (a successor to Kepler) provides increased performance per watt to users. These graphics chips will help Nvidia regain the lost market share to AMD and fortify its lead in the market.ddition, Nvidia's GRID portfolio of products, especially for cloud applications and Tesla products for high-performance computing, will also add to the segment's revenue growth. Application of GRID for cloud is in the introductory phase and growth in adoption of this technology will increase revenue in the graphics business. The Tesla business is a growing, profitable business, given the strong demand for graphics in high-performance computing applications.
Nvidia's graphics business will continue to contribute significantly towards Nvidia's top-line growth in 2014. The launch of the Maxwell GPU-based graphics card supported by strong demand of its Tesla products will play a major role in the company's growth.
Nvidia's outlook looks strong with both the graphics and Tegra businesses contributing to top-line growth. Though Tegra forms only a small part of the overall top line, long-term it will be a main growth driver of the company. Meanwhile, the graphics business should post another good fiscal year on account of new market opportunities from cloud applications and the launch of the next-generation Maxwell architecture.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010714:51
SYMBOL = ATHX
Investors looking at Athersys, Inc. (NASDAQ:ATHX) who've done their due diligence should see a favorable risk vs. reward ratio and relative safe haven for investment dollars. At least that's the picture through April 2014 when Athersys investors will have first pause to re-evaluate their risk tolerance ahead of the ulcerative colitis phase II initial data release. Those who are both seasoned and savvy investors in the biotechnology arena understand the following: This far away from the April data release they face almost no risk for significant downside. They also know for at least the next three months it will remain this way. On the other hand, Athersys investors have potential for higher than normal rewards heading toward April.
The overall investment sentiment is strongly bullish and the steadily increasing share price is testament to that fact. To explain the bullish sentiment one needs to use a certain level of due diligence. For example, one of the most important questions upon investigating any development stage biotechnology company should be: Is the company strapped for cash? That question comes only after the most obvious question is answered. Does this company possess something worthy of an investment in the first place? In the case of Athersys most investors are investing in the belief MultiStem, a platform based on an adult stem cell derived from bone marrow, will be a success in treating both ulcerative colitis and ischemic stroke. Both are currently hard to treat diseases and patients are in need of better options for treatment. MultiStem is specifically derived of multipotent adult progenitor cells (MAPCs). For those further interested in what MultiStem is they should look at the development of multiStem.
Getting back to the important question, is Athersys strapped for cash? The answer is absolutely not. Could Athersys benefit from a higher market cap, sure, what company wouldn't? The thing investors are really interested in is whether the company has in the past raised capital in a way that spares its investors as much downside risk as possible, and whether it has enough money to see its key catalysts through. In the case of Athersys, those questions are both answered with a yes. Athersys CEO Gil Van Bokkelen seems keenly aware and in tune with his company's investors. Evidence of this can be seen in the recent registered direct offering announced on November 27th, 2013, that closed on or about December 3rd, 2013. That offering occurred with almost no undermining of the then current share price. That's most often not the case when a biotech company raises capital. The offering was done because Athersys was approached by an interested investor and Gil made sure his team explained it to all investors in the last webcast. If being approached by a large investor wanting more shares in Athersys isn't an indication of a bullish sentiment for the future share price direction, maybe those investors who can't see it that way should paper trade a while longer. Athersys has also renewed a deal with Aspire Capital should financial conditions warrant the need for more capital. (not likely any time soon). In other words, the risk of an equity placement is virtually non-existent ahead of the ulcerative colitis data release.
In the diagram below investors and potential investors are given a quick snapshot of where things stand as far as risk and reward vs. current share price. This should help with the question that many investors will inevitably be asking: Is it too late to jump on board? It's interesting to note that Edison's projection is right where most conservative share price estimates are, in the middle. That's not to be confused with the risk/reward tipping point, better known as an even bet ahead of a key company event. For those who may not know it, Edison is a leading international investment research firm.
Note the distance between price targets. The distance does not necessarily mean how fast a target will be reached. Rather it's indicative of that generality from past similar acting biotechnology stocks. To see why the line is so short between $2.50 and $3.00 an investor should look at how fast Galena Biopharma, Inc. (NASDAQ:GALE) went to $3.00 after breaching $2.50 then $4.00 after breaking over $3.00 as an example. The Yahoo Finance price history can be utilized in that endeavor. Sometimes targets are broken faster or slower than the lines in the illustration tend to portray, however, they are far more accurate at determining length of time for consolidation at each price target. In other words, if a target on a longer distanced line is achieved too fast investors can expect more profit taking to occur, followed by the typical ups and downs of re-accumulation and new base forming for the next leg up.
Share price targets given in this article are upgrades to previously lower estimates and no longer agree with Edison's estimate. The evolving higher price per share estimates can be seen by reviewing past articles posted via the U.S. Biotech Investor site as well as other articles on the Seeking Alpha site. Actually, looking at the above illustration an investor should be able to see the overly conservative nature of the Edison share price estimate ahead of the ulcerative colitis top-line data release coming up in April or May of this year.
Here's the reason for the departure from Edison's price targets. There's still plenty of time to the known phase II data release event in April or May, with much to look forward to. Current market cap demands more respect, investor sentiment is bullish and should remain so, potential for surprise catalysts ahead of known events, and more is known about alternative markets like Japan. Those are examples of things used to determine a fair value per share ahead of the ulcerative colitis data release. Looking at time to event (data release) and current investor sentiment while combining it with the visual diagram above should illustrate the true absurdity of an investor believing Edison's $3.40 projection will be the top share price ahead of April 2014. That's meant as no disrespect to Edison Research which chose to err on the side of caution, it's just the nature of the game. To be fair to Edison, they came out early with their price target and boldly stated it. Edison did this while the Athersys market cap was a mere $105 million and based on a $1.75 share price. Price target projections from just about all sources have been moving higher ahead of the coming data release. Edison's call being one of the earliest was bold at the time.
Further explaining why current price projections were edged higher: In the latest webcast new light was shed on potential catalysts (like potential GvHD partnering). These potentials had to be more accurately factored in projections concerning share price targets ahead of the ulcerative colitis data release. The timing of potential new events doesn't really matter, what matters is the perception that investors see for share price appreciation.
A look at the last 3 months of 2013
With the year-end comes the occasion for biotechnology investors to revise their investment choices. This usually comes after evaluating the future potential of multiple biotechnology companies both in the short term (months) and long term (year or years). It's logical to assume that Athersys, Inc. will be viewed favorably and as a worthy addition to many portfolios. Fresh on the minds of many will be the recent breaking developments near the end of 2013 like the European orphan drug designation and the end of the enrolment for the ulcerative colitis trial conducted by Pfizer.
Another recent development is the finalized legislation in Japan that provides a framework for accelerated approval of stem cell products. Japan is the world's second-largest mature healthcare market.
Japan's parliament, the Diet, enacted a bill in the last quarter of 2013 which revised the existing Pharmaceutical Affairs Law to define new medical products which contain stem cells to be termed regenerative medicine products. The bill allows the Japanese government to give conditional approval to such products if their safety is confirmed in clinical trials, as may occur on completion of well designed Phase II trials. William (B.J.) Lehmann, President and Chief Operating Officer of Athersys, said they are "aggressively going after Japan." Hopefully news will be coming from Gil Van Bokken's recent visits to Japan. See: Q3 2013 - earnings call transcript for comments concerning Japan.
End of enrollment for the ulcerative colitis trial - achieved
Initiation of the GvHD phase II/III trial in 2014 likely
Initiation of the acute myocardial infarction phase II trial 2014 likely
Potential realization of a partnership for the obesity drug
Potential realization of a partnership for ischemic stroke in Japan
Potential for future grants or awards
Potential milestone payments from RTI or Pfizer
Small potential for Bristol Myers squib news 
Regulatory changes to accelerate regenerative medicine use in Japan may bring development and partnering news for rights to the Japanese market. *See: Ramifications of Japanese legislation
The above mentioned GvHD indication may in fact have two catalysts: Initiation of the trial and a potential partnering per the last webcast hosted on December 4th, 2013. The same may also hold true for the acute myocardial infarction indication. After listening to the webcast one gets the feeling investors may be treated to unexpected news sooner than anticipated.
Major catalysts
Ulcerative colitis trial initial data release -April or May 2014
Ischemic stroke trial initial data release - July 2014
Herein lies a low risk and probable high reward investment opportunity. Shares of Athersys should be valued at a minimum of $5.50 ahead of April 2014 when the top line data for a phase II ulcerative colitis trail will be released. The bullish sentiment should increase as April approaches. A second trial for ischemic stroke is around the corner and reduces risk for investors if the ulcerative colitis data is less than expected. For a price projection beyond both trials data release please see: Treatment for ischemic stroke.
For those who will no doubt argue a $5.50 price projection is too conservative ahead of April. Notice the illustration in this article does extend past the $5.50 mark. Room exists for an upgrade should any of the listed snapshot events occur prior to April 2014.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010715:29
SYMBOL = NFLX
The decline in Netflix (NASDAQ:NFLX) shares today is being attributed to an analyst's downgrade and the reasons given for it, including valuation and burgeoning competition. However, I'm telling you that the reason for this early 2014 downslide is much simpler than that, and was completely predictable. Furthermore, I expect it will get worse with shifting momentum and fleeing capital.
Netflix led all comers in the S&P 500 in 2013, rocketing 298% through the year. Whenever a name shows significant operational improvement, like Netflix did this year, or offers great potential, like Netflix does, it attracts an opportunistic investor base along with the long-term holders. When that happens, momentum takes over and allows a stock to pack on a heavy load of precarious capital, or money that could leave as quickly as it came.
As a result, at the threshold of critical tax year dates, and other dates like around earnings, there's going to be a good chance for profit taking. That should be especially true when the market is reexamining momentum names across the board, as evidenced by stock or analyst pressure of late against Tesla (NASDAQ:TSLA), Twitter (NYSE:TWTR) and others. I think this is the main reason why NFLX is cascading today, and that investors, media and analysts are filling in reasons to justify a change of opinion. Those same reasons existed before, in my view, but the catalyst that's bringing them to the fore of the tongue today is flighty capital that has a good reason to go on the tax calendar.
But Valuation Matters Right?
Of course it does. Just because a stock quadrupled over the last year does not mean it can't do the same thing this year. However, I find it hard to make that argument when a valuation is too rich. This stock trades at 84X the 2014 analysts' consensus EPS estimate. Now, mind you, that represents stellar 129% growth over 2013. These are estimates that have been seeing sharp increases of late as well, so we cannot be sure how much better (using trend as our guide) things could get over time. That combination of rapidly improving operations and uncertainty is what has allowed the stock's P/E to expand so far. So, as it turns out, long-term growth estimates for a 22.5% average annual rate of improvement could prove conservative. If so, the PEG ratio of 3.7X could be deceiving rather than rich.
However, given that Amazon.com (NASDAQ:AMZN) has developed a competing service, Amazon Prime, perhaps there is formidable threat that could impact the company's growth by taking a portion of the available market. That is in addition to the threat presented by HBO GO and Hulu.com. Sony (NYSE:SNE) joined the fray today as well, announcing it at CES.
Netflix shares topped out during what I'll call this year's Santa Claus rally; the shares closed at $380 and change on December 23. Since then, as you can see, the share trend has changed. Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) might have taken note of that before downgrading the stock Tuesday for various reasons including:
Believes investors have priced in unreasonable expectations
Valuation
Increasing competition
Today's analyst downgrade and the real threat from new and serious competitors can only add to the stress on precarious capital that has good reason to flee and take a tax gain now that will be paid next year. This is the reason the stock started lower late last year, and it's the overhanging threat that could cause an avalanche for NFLX over the near term. In conclusion, I would reduce risk and sell NFLX or otherwise protect holdings.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010716:45
SYMBOL = VMW
Over the years, VMware (NYSE:VMW) has established itself as a market leader in virtualization and has recently shifted its focus to cloud computing services as well. VMware’s vSphere Hypervisor, which provides a virtual operating platform to guest operating systems, increasingly faces competition across the industry. In this article, we take a look at the vSphere Hypervisor’s main competitors and how each of them could affect VMware’s hold over the market. VMware has a share of around 55% in the virtualization market, which has been constantly declining over the last few years and we expect the trend to continue.
Microsoft Hyper-V
The architecture of virtualization software is such that it “sits on top of the hardware beneath the operating system,” which in turn reduces dependence on the operating system which is running. VMware’s presence in this segment made Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) feel the need to enter into the virtualization market and to eliminate the threat VMware posed to its core product, the Windows OS. Consequently, Microsoft launched Hyper-V back in 2008 to compete with VMware. Since its launch, the Hyper-V has constantly improved and added more features to compete with market leader VMware. Between the two, there are a number of varied features and flexible configurations that vSphere offers which the Hyper-V doesn’t as it has only one edition. Notably, the Hyper-V is much cheaper than the full vSphere Enterprise Edition, but not all clients buy the full enterprise edition. Additionally, the advantage for customers already using other Microsoft products such as System Center have an added incentive because Microsoft provides Hyper-V virtualization at no cost to them. In addition, due to the general improvement in the product and services offered, Microsoft has gained market share. VMware's market share has gone from 65% in 2008 to 57% in 2013. Comparatively, Microsoft’s share in the market has gone up from around 20% at the end of 2008 to 28% in 2013. Microsoft’s Hyper-V is VMware’s biggest area of concern in the next few quarters.
Citrix XenServer
Citrix’s (NASDAQ: CTXS) XenServer, which is different from Microsoft’s Hyper-V, is a bare-metal hypervisor. This means it runs directly on the host hardware and doesn’t need an operating system to be hosted on. With the recent release of XenServer 6.2, Citrix believes it is in shape to give serious competition to VMware. The most significant feature of the XenServer is that it has no licensing charges. It is freely available, with the company charging customers only for support and maintenance. Even though Citrix’s market share in the segment dropped from around 4% in 2011 to 3.3% in 2012, a lot of customers, including a number of small and medium businesses (SMBs), are likely to switch to the XenServer going forward.
Other Competitors
VMware also has several other competitors, the most prominent being Oracle’s (NASDAQ:ORCL) VirtualBox, which is also a freely available virtualization hypervisor. It supports a variety of operating systems such as Microsoft Windows, Linux, Mac OS and Solaris, which makes it a very flexible platform. The only downside to this product (from a commercial standpoint) is that it specifically targets advanced users – those who can edit code for customized usage. It is also slightly slower in terms of performance and likely doesn’t pose an immediate or a significant threat to VMware’s market share.
Next on the list is the Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization Hypervisor (REVH), which uses the Linux kernel as a hypervisor with virtual machines having direct access to the hardware resources. It is available both in the bare-metal form and as a hosted platform. The key distinguishing factor of REVH relative to other hypervisors is that it allows user to provision virtual machines themselves, again an option for advanced users.
Due to an increase in competitors over the last few years, VMware has seen a decline in market share. Going forward we expect the share to drop even further. If Microsoft’s Hyper-V causes a greater decline in VMware’s share than we currently forecast, there could be a significant downside to our $94 price estimate for VMware.
In terms of the virtualization market, competition is a major concern for VMware as Citrix’s XenServer and Microsoft’s Hyper-V could be big winners in the upcoming few quarters. Additionally, VMware has shifted focus towards cloud computing and intends to use its huge virtualization enterprise customer base to utilize its enterprise-level hypervisor for cloud computing, the ESX. With the hybrid cloud market expected to grow significantly over the next few years, things are looking bright for VMware on the back of its recently launched hybrid cloud services. However, in terms of virtualization, it certainly is not a one-horse race anymore.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014010718:00
SYMBOL = MON
Monsanto Co. (NYSE:MON), one of the leading agricultural biotech companies had a great year in 2013. Monsanto sells genetically engineered seed and agricultural productivity chemicals. The chemical company's stock climbed 20% last year from $95.55 to $116.55. Most analysts believe the bull market of 2013 will continue into 2014 with more modest gains, MON will be one of the first companies to report quarterly financial results in the new year. Monsanto is expected to report their first earnings release of 2014 before the market opens on Wednesday, January 8th.
The information below is derived from data submitted to the Estimize platform by a set of Buy Side and Independent analyst contributors.image
The current Wall Street consensus expectation is for MON to report 63c EPS and $3.083B revenue while the current Estimize consensus from Buy Side and Independent contributing analysts is 69c EPS and $3.077B revenue.
Over the past 6 quarters the Estimize community was more accurate in forecasting Monsanto's EPS and revenue 4 times each. By tapping into a wider range of contributors including hedge-fund analysts, asset managers, students, and non professional investors Estimize has built a data set that is up to 69.5% more accurate than Wall Street, but more importantly it does a better job of representing the market's actual expectations.
The magnitude of the difference between the Wall Street and Estimize consensus numbers often identifies opportunities to take advantage of expectations that may not have been priced into the market. In this case we are seeing a large differential between the consensuses. image
Over the past four months the Wall Street consensus trend for EPS has dipped from 64c to 63c while Wall Street revenue expectations have dropped from $3.151B to $3.083B. The Estimize EPS consensus has declined from 72c to 69c while the revenue consensus has increased from $3.062B to $3.077B at the end of quarter. image
The distribution of estimates published by analysts on Estimize range from 62c to 81c EPS and $3.058B to $3.100B in revenues. This quarter we're seeing an average distribution of estimates for EPS and a smaller distribution for revenue. The size of the distribution of estimates relative to previous quarters often signals whether or not the market is confident that it has priced in the expected earnings already. A wider distribution signaling the potential for greater volatility post earnings, a smaller vice versa. image
The analyst with the highest estimate confidence rating this quarter is OptionsHawk who projects 68c EPS and $3.095B in revenue. Estimate confidence ratings are calculated through algorithms developed by our deep quantitative research which looks at correlations between analyst track records and tendencies as they relate to future accuracy. In this case OptionsHawk, who is ranked 12th overall among 3400 contributing analysts, is making a bullish call expecting Monsanto to beat the Street on both profit and revenue.
This quarter the Estimize community is expecting Monsanto Co. to beat Wall Street on both the top and bottom line. Throughout the past 6 quarters MON has met or exceeded the Wall Street profit consensus 4 times and the Estimize contributing analysts are expecting them to produce another strong quarterly earnings report.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140101718:50
SYMBOL = GSK
GlaxoSmithKline (NYSE:GSK) is a British multinational pharmaceutical company, ranking among the largest companies within its industry by sales. Currently, it offers a dividend yield of 4.6%, which is higher than the industry's average and is very attractive for income investors. This high-dividend yield does not reflect an unsustainable dividend but is mainly the reflection of negative news flow over the past 18 months, which has resulted in a poor share performance compared to its closest peers during this period, as shown in the next graph.
Company Overview
GlaxoSmithKline is a pharmaceutical, vaccines and consumer healthcare company headquartered in London, U.K. It is the world's fifth-largest pharmaceutical company after Pfizer (NYSE:PFE), Novartis (NYSE:NVS), Sanofi (NYSE:SNY) and Merck (NYSE:MRK). The company was established in 2000 by the merger of Glaxo Wellcome Plc and SmithKline Beecham Plc. It is currently the largest healthcare company in the U.K. with over 100,000 employees. GlaxoSmithKline has a market capitalization of about $128 billion, and is traded on the New York Stock Exchange as American Depositary Receipts [ADR]. The company's three primary areas of business are Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines, and Consumer Healthcare. The pharmaceutical division is the largest accounting for 68% of the group's revenues. GlaxoSmithKline's Consumer Healthcare accounts for 19% of sales, with Vaccines representing the remaining 13%.
As a global healthcare company, GlaxoSmithKline's sales are very well diversified geographically. GlaxoSmithKline's revenues outside the U.S. and Europe account for about 40% of its total sales during the past year, being therefore very well exposed to high-growth markets. Sales in emerging markets account for about 26% of the group's total and should be the major growth driver over the coming years. In addition, government's budget constraints throughout the developed economies are also a headwind for the sector's top-line growth and profitability, so companies with more exposure to emerging markets clearly offer better dividend sustainability over the long-term
A large part of healthcare power to make great profits come from investing in proprietary intellectual property, resulting on brand-name drugs that companies can patent and sell exclusively for a fixed period of time. GlaxoSmithKline has spent about $5.7 billion in research and development [R&D] during 2012, or about 13% of its sales, with the pharmaceutical division being responsible for 80% of the company's R&D investments. It currently has about 14 assets in late stage pipeline, which can be a significant boost to GlaxoSmithKline's top-line growth over the next few years. During 2013, GlaxoSmithKline has achieved four approvals showing that its R&D investments are paying off, and more approvals are expected over the next few months. The company's return on R&D investment is about 12%, which is higher than the industry average of about 8-9% and the company's goal is to improve returns on R&D investment to around 14% over the next couple of years. On the negative side, one the key issues facing the industry right now is major patent expiries over the next few years. GlaxoSmithKline is also affected by this issue given that its most important product is Advair, which accounts for about 20% of its sales, and a reduction of its sales is expected following its U.S. patent expire in 2016. However, as the company is already working to bring improved products to the market the loss of its patent shouldn't be a major problem if they are successful in reducing Advair's weight on sales.
Another issue that has affected GlaxoSmithKline is the negative news flow over the past eighteen months, helping to justify its higher than average dividend yield. In July 2012, GlaxoSmithKline pleaded guilty to criminal charges in the U.S, and agreed to pay $3 billion in fines including a criminal fine of $1 billion. More recently, the company has an issue in China, as its business is being investigated by authorities over allegations of fraudulent behavior. This has led GlaxoSmithKline to announce last December that it intends to end two common industry practices that appear to cause conflicts of interest: paying doctors to promote the company's drugs and linking the compensation of sales representatives to the number of prescriptions that physicians write. Although this is obviously negative, it does not change the company's fundamentals and may provide a good entry point for long-term investors.
Financial Overview & Dividends
Regarding GlaxoSmithKline's financial performance, it has been relatively stable over the past few years which is good for income investors as it also gives a good level of predictability regarding its future. In 2012, GlaxoSmithKline's revenues declined by about 3% to $40.1 billion, but were stable considering the disposal of its OTC Consumer Healthcare brands. It was negatively impacted by a challenging economic environment in Europe and austerity measures implemented, leading to a sales drop of 7% in this geography during the year. On the other hand, sales in emerging markets performed well, growing by 10%. Its new products were responsible for $2.3 billion in sales, or approximately 7% of total sales, helping to offset declining sales of older drugs. Going forward, and according to analysts' estimates, its growth should pick-up to 1.2% in 2014 and 4.2% in 2015 to reach more than $45 billion.
GlaxoSmithKline is a very profitable company given that its EBITDA was $15.4 billion in 2012, representing an EBITDA margin of 35.6%. Within the major pharmaceutical companies only Pfizer has a higher EBITDA margin; a gap that should narrow over the next few years as GlaxoSmithKline has a cost reduction program ongoing, targeting annual savings of more than $6 billion by 2016. Its EBITDA margin is expected to increase to almost 37% in the next two years, mainly from higher efficient operations. During the first nine months of 2013, the company's results were stable with sales flat at $32 billion, and unchanged core operating profit of $9.7 billion. Its full year 2013 guidance is for core earnings-per-share growth of 3-4% in sales growth around 1% at constant exchange rates.
Regarding its dividend, GlaxoSmithKline's history is very good given that it has always paid dividends since its merger in 2000. Furthermore, company is committed to deliver a growing dividend and return excess cash to shareholders through share buybacks. In 2012, GlaxoSmithKline has returned more than $9.5 billion to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks, representing about 7.5% of its current market capitalization. Its last quarterly dividend was $61.6 cents per share, an increase of 6% from the previous quarter. Its annualized dividend is $2.46 per share, which at its current stock price represents a dividend yield of 4.6%. Over the past five years, the dividend CAGR was 6.6% which is quite good for a large company like GlaxoSmithKline. For the next two years, its dividend growth rate should remain in-line with its historical average, increasing to about $2.80 per share in 2015.
On the other hand, its dividend payout ratio is relatively high at 74% but given the company's stable business and good profitability its does not seem to threaten the dividend sustainability. It would be good to see a lower payout ratio over the next few years to about 60% which is more sustainable over the long-term. Even though the relatively high payout ratio may cause some doubts regarding its sustainability, looking at cash flows the picture is completely different.
GlaxoSmithKline's cash flow generation is very good, as usual within the healthcare industry. Its cash flow from operating activities was $11.5 billion in 2012, which was enough to finance its capital expenditures, dividends and share buybacks. As the company's capex is relatively low and is not expected to increase in the near future, its free cash flow should remain robust over the next few years. During the first nine months of 2013, its cash flow excluding legal costs has remained stable with a free cash flow of $5.3 billion more than covering its dividend payments of $4.6 billion, showing that its dividend is clearly sustainable and has some room to deliver a growing dividend without resorting to higher balance sheet leverage.
GlaxoSmithKline's balance sheet is relatively strong, even though it is more leveraged than most of its peers. As of 30 September, 2013, its net debt was close to $25 billion, representing a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 1.57x. This leverage ratio is acceptable given the company's fundamentals, namely its stability, good profitability and strong cash flow generation capacity. Moreover, GlaxoSmithKline has recently completed divestitures totaling more than $3 billion and its leverage ratio should will decline to about 1.25x, strengthening even further its balance sheet and increasing its dividend sustainability in the long haul.
GlaxoSmithKline has been negatively impacted by news flow over the past few months leading to a higher than average dividend yield give that its share price has not rallied like the market and its peers, despite its unchanged business fundamentals. Its dividend seems to be sustainable and is expected to continue its growing path over the next few years, making it a compelling investment for long-term investors that look beyond the company's short-term issues.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20141112
SYMBOL = T
AT&T Inc (T.N) on Wednesday raised pressure on the U.S. telecommunications regulator's work on new "net neutrality" rules, saying it would stop investing in high-speed Internet connections in 100 cities until the Web rules were settled.
The statement from AT&T Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson is the first move by an Internet service provider in response to President Barack Obama's unexpected call on the Federal Communications Commission on Monday to regulate these companies more like public utilities.
AT&T has been spending heavily on acquisitions and the statement came only days after it cut its capital spending estimate for 2015.
The industry and Republican lawmakers have protested Obama's proposal, saying stricter Internet traffic regulations would stifle growth and investment.
"We can't go out and invest that kind of money deploying fiber to 100 cities not knowing under what rules those investments will be governed," Stephenson said at an analyst conference.
In April, AT&T said it would deploy its high-speed fiber network in 100 cities, including Chicago, Los Angeles and Miami.
Ensuring access to quality Internet for all Americans has been the FCC's major focus. The White House detailed Obama's plan in a blog post on Monday, saying that, if implemented, it "shouldn’t create any new burden for Internet providers."
Telecom companies plan to fight Obama's call for utility-style regulations in Congress and the courts.
More than three dozen congressional Republicans wrote to FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler on Wednesday that Obama's proposed changes were "beyond the scope of the FCC's authority."
Comcast Corp (CMCSA.O), now closing a merger deal with Time Warner Cable Inc (TWC.N) that would create the nation's top cable Internet service provider, said on Wednesday the net-neutrality uncertainty would chill investment in Web infrastructure."The (regulatory) insecurity creates investment insecurity," Comcast CEO Brian Roberts told reporters in San Francisco. "We will spend $20 billion in capital spending if you include Time Warner Cable. We want to have open internet rules, but don't want to discourage investment."
AT&T, whose $48.5 billion bid for DirecTV (DTV.O) is under government review, said on Friday it would also pay $1.7 billion to acquire Mexican wireless operator Iusacell. It trimmed its 2015 capital spending outlook to $18 billion from $21 billion.
At the same conference on Wednesday, Verizon Communications Inc (VZ.N) CFO Fran Shammo struck a more restrained tone. She said the FCC could restrict "paid prioritization" deals, where content companies pay for faster downloads of some websites or applications, without pursuing utility-style regulations.
"I think the independent agency of the FCC will make the right decision," Shammo added.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20141111
SYMBOL = MSFT
Microsoft Corp (MSFT.O) said it would roll out its Lumia 535 smartphone this month with an affordable price tag in its key markets, dropping the Nokia name just months after buying the Finnish company's handset business.
Loaded with its latest Windows Phone 8.1 operating system, the Lumia 535 and Lumia 535 dual SIM will be priced at around 110 euros (about $137) before taxes and subsidies, Microsoft said in a statement.
The phone will feature a wide-angle 5 megapixel front-facing camera and a 5-inch qHD display screen, the company said.
Smartphones run on Microsofts' Windows software, mostly Lumias, captured only 2.7 percent of the global smartphone market in the second quarter, down from 3.8 percent the year before, according to research firm Strategy Analytics.
Microsoft completed its $7.2 billion deal to buy Nokia's (NOK1V.HE) handset business in April. Nokia continues as a networks, mapping and technology licensing company. It owns and manages the Nokia brand and only licenses it to Microsoft.
Microsoft had said in the past it planned to license the Nokia brand for its lower-end mobile phones for 10 years and to use the name on its smartphones only for a "limited" time, without saying how long that might be.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20141107
SYMBOL = HD
Home Depot Inc, the world's largest home improvement chain, said hackers stole about 53 million email addresses in addition to customer data for 56 million payment cards previously disclosed by the retailer.
The company, which confirmed the breach in September, said the files that contained the email addresses did not include passwords, payment card information or other sensitive personal information.
Home Depot, which had estimated that the theft would cost about $62 million, was one of a string of U.S. retailers attacked by hackers over the past year.
Criminals used a third-party vendor's user name and password to enter the perimeter of its network, Home Depot said in a statement on Thursday.
The hackers then acquired "elevated rights" that allowed them to navigate parts of Home Depot's network and to deploy unique, custom-built malware on its self-checkout systems in the U.S. and Canada, according to the company.
Home Depot said the stolen credentials did not alone provide direct access to the company's point-of-sale devices.
Since September, the company has implemented enhanced encryption of payment data in all U.S. stores and said the rollout to Canadian stores will be completed by early 2015.
This, however, was "really lipstick on a pig" and the proper solution was to add chip and PIN, or EMV technology, to U.S. credit cards, said David Campbell, chief security officer at SendGrid, a cloud-based email delivery service.
Home Depot said it was already rolling out the EMV technology.
The company reaffirmed its 2014 sales growth forecast of about 4.8 percent and earnings per share forecast of $4.54.
The forecast includes estimates for the cost to investigate the data breach, provide credit monitoring services to its customers as well as legal fees, the company said.
"I think the big takeaway was that they are able to maintain their sales guidance for the full year, which means people are still showing up at the stores, still spending.." Joseph Feldman, analyst at Telsey Advisory Group, told Reuters.
The company maintained that it has not yet estimated the impact of "probable losses" related to the breach.
"Those costs may have a material adverse effect on The Home Depot's financial results in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 and/or future periods," the company said.
Home Depot shares closed up 1.6 percent at $97.29 per share on Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange.
Target Corp's unprecedented breach saw hackers steal at least 40 million payment card numbers and 70 million other pieces of customer data in 2013.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050717:55
SYMBOL = ALDR
Clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company.
Major collaboration agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb, which has a market cap of $82 billion.
BMY has indicated an interest in purchasing up to $20 million of the IPO, or 20%.
Based in Bothell, WA, Alder Biopharmaceuticals (NASDAQ:ALDR) scheduled a $100 million IPO on the Nasdaq with a market capitalization of $407 million at a price range midpoint of $14 for Thursday, May 8, 2014.
The full IPO calendar is available at IPOpremium.
SEC Documents 
Manager, Joint managers: Credit Suisse, Leerink Partners
Co-Managers: Wells Fargo Securities, Sanford C. Bernstein
End of lockup (180 days): Tuesday, November 4, 2014
End of 25-day quiet period: Monday, June 2, 2014
Summary
ALDR is a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and seeks to commercialize therapeutic antibodies with the potential to meaningfully transform current treatment paradigms.
ALDR has a major collaboration agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb (NYSE:BMY), which has a market cap of $82 billion.
BMS has indicated an interest in purchasing up to $20 million of the IPO, or 20%.
Conclusion
The rating on ALDR is positive because of the Bristol-Myers-Squib relationship.
To put the conclusions and observations in context, the following is reorganized, edited and summarized from the full S-1 referenced above.
Business
ALDR is a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and seeks to commercialize therapeutic antibodies with the potential to meaningfully transform current treatment paradigms.
ALDR has developed a proprietary antibody platform designed to select antibodies that have the potential to maximize efficacy as well as speed of onset and durability of therapeutic response.
In addition, ALDR believes its ability to efficiently manufacture antibodies using its yeast-based manufacturing technology, MabXpress, allows ALDR to target diseases that traditionally have not been addressed by antibodies.
Both ALDR's lead product candidates were discovered internally, have achieved proof-of-concept and are expected to enter final Phase 2b dose-ranging trials in 2014 in preparation for progression to Phase 3 trials if supported by the data.
ALD403 is ALDR's wholly-owned novel monoclonal antibody targeted to calcitonin gene-related peptide, or CGRP, for migraine prevention. ALDR recently completed a three-month randomized, placebo-controlled proof-of-concept trial of ALD403 in 163 patients suffering from five to 14 migraine days per month, or high frequency migraine.
ALDR plans to initiate a Phase 2b dose-ranging trial in the second half of 2014, with the goal of initiating pivotal Phase 3 trials in 2016.
Clazakizumab is a novel monoclonal antibody that inhibits the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-6, or IL-6, and is being developed for both RA and psoriatic arthritis, or PsA.
Bristol-Myers Squibb
In November 2009, ALDR entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb, or BMS, for the development and commercialization of Clazakizumab and received an $85 million upfront payment.
BMS is responsible for paying 100% of worldwide development costs for all indications, except cancer, and reimbursing ALDR for certain clinical supply and development costs, subject to ALDR being responsible for approximately 50% of costs incurred by ALDR for development of manufacturing process improvements up to certain caps with respect to such costs.
To date, in addition to the upfront payment, ALDR has received two milestone payments totaling $18.5 million in the aggregate and reimbursed clinical supply and development costs of $26.6 million. ALDR may also receive additional development-based and regulatory-based milestone payments of up to $394.0 million in RA.
In addition, if Clazakizumab is commercialized for RA, ALDR may receive sales-based milestones up to $500.0 million and tiered royalties starting in the mid-teens up to 20% on net sales of Clazakizumab.
Under the collaboration agreement, ALDR is entitled to additional milestone payments and royalties for additional indications, subject to certain reductions.
Evaluating four programs
ALDR is currently evaluating four programs with the view of advancing at least one candidate into the clinic in 2015 for a disease indication where therapeutic antibodies have not previously played a role. ALDR will continue to enhance its technologies to discover optimized product candidates that can be manufactured efficiently on a very large scale.
ALDR may seek to monetize its technology platform by consummating partnerships with leading biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. ALDR also intends to continue to deploy capital to selectively develop its own portfolio of product candidates.
Auditors express doubt
"Our auditors have issued a going concern opinion on our 2013 financial statements, expressing substantial doubt that we can continue as an ongoing business for the next 12 months after issuance of their report."
However, if the ALDR IPO is successful ALDR believes the auditors will reverse the "going concern" opinion.
Dividend Policy
No dividends are planned.
Intellectual Property
ALDR 's patents and patent applications relating to Clazakizumab have been broadly filed worldwide.
Many of these applications were issued in the United States and other countries and will expire between 2028 and 2031, or later if patent term extension applies.
ALDR's patent applications relating to ALD403 have also been broadly filed worldwide. If these applications issue as patents, they are estimated to expire in 2032.
ALDR holds two U.S. patents - one for U.S. patent application and numerous foreign patents related to MabXpress. ALDR's MabXpress patents and patent applications relate to the expression of heteropolymeric polypeptides, such as antibodies, in Pichia. These patents will expire between 2024 and 2026.
ALDR faces competition with respect to its current product candidates, and will face competition with respect to product candidates that ALDR may seek to develop or commercialize in the future, from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide.
In addition, ALDR's ability to compete may be affected in many cases by insurers or other third-party payors seeking to encourage the use of biosimilar products, which are expected to become available over the coming years.
Many of ALDR's competitors are large pharmaceutical companies that will have a greater ability to reduce prices for their competing drugs in an effort to gain market share and undermine the value proposition that ALDR might otherwise be able to offer to payors.
Potential competitors also include academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization.
5% stockholders
Entities affiliated with Sevin Rosen 23.7%
Ventures West 8 Limited Partnership 14.7%
Novo A/S 12.1%
Entities affiliated with H.I.G. Venture Partners 11.8%
Entities affiliated with Delphi Ventures 11.4%
TPG Biotechnology Partners II, L.P. 11.4%
Stephen M. Dow 24.9%
Use of proceeds
ALDR expects to net $91 million from its IPO. Proceeds are allocated as follows:
$37 million for its planned Phase 2b dose-ranging trial of its monoclonal antibody, ALD403, targeting CGRP for prevention of migraine;
$5.5 million for preclinical product development activities; and
the balance for working capital and other general corporate purposes, which may include the acquisition or licensing of other products, businesses or technologies.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050617:55
SYMBOL = JPM
The trend in revenues and the profitability of the bank does not paint a pretty picture.
Increase in the provisions for loan losses indicates deterioration in the asset quality.
The fall in the services revenue is alarming, which has fallen by more than 13%.
The banking sector is going through a critical phase, and most of the participants have lost value due to different reasons. JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM) has lost around 11% during the last month. Similarly, Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) and Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC) have also lost around 11.4% and 1%, respectively. All these banks have their own reasons for the fall - BAC's stock has taken a hit due to the accounting error by the management and the ongoing litigation issues. The stock price of JPM plummeted due to the unexpected first quarter earnings release of the company. JPM missed the earnings estimates for the quarter and announced further decreases in earnings for the second quarter, leaving investors curious about future growth.
Earnings: A Deeper Analysis
The core income source for a bank is its interest income - as financial institutions take deposits and lend out that money for interest. However, the services revenue has also become very important for financial institutions over the years. It is evident for JPMorgan in the image below that the non-interest income is higher than the interest income, the core earnings for a bank.
JPMorgan reported a lower net interest income in the first quarter due to a decrease in the net revenue in the consumer and community banking segment. The result was also not different from the last year's performance in which the company reported a significant decrease in the net revenues due to lower mortgage fees and related income, net interest income, and securities gain. However, the non-interest income has shown a slight growth compared to the last quarter.
An important figure here is the provision for credit losses, which has increased substantially from the last year. Compared to the last quarter, this figure paints an even more worrying picture as the provision for credit losses stands at $850 million, compared to just $104 million for the last quarter. This massive increase in the provision indicates an alarming situation for JPMorgan in the coming quarters, since it indicates the strength of the loan portfolio and the credit quality of the bank.
Source: JPMorgan First Quarter Earnings Supplement
Investment banking and lending and deposit fees have both shown a downward trend as these fees have come down year-over-year as well as sequentially. On the other hand, asset management and commissions are up year-over-year, but down sequentially. Total non-interest income is down substantially year-over-year (almost $2 billion, or 13%). Similarly, interest income is also down year-over-year as well as sequentially. However, the fall in interest income is not as big as the fall in the non-interest income.
Segmented Performance Overview
Before a segmented analysis of the company, let's take an overview of the quarterly performance. JPMorgan reported revenues of $23.86 billion, which missed the analysts' estimates of $24.49 billion for the first quarter by 2.57%. Also, the quarterly profits of $5.27 billion, with an EPS of $1.28, fell by 19.5% compared to the same period last year. The image below shows the revenue mix over the last few quarters.
Source: JPMorgan First Quarter Earnings Supplement
JPMorgan derives a major portion of its revenues from the Consumer and Community Banking segment, which reported net revenues of $10.46 billion in the first quarter, showing a decrease of almost 10% year-over-over. However, the segment contributed $1.94 billion to the bank's overall profits, with a decrease of 25% year-over-year. The most alarming component in this segment is the increase of provisions for credit losses, which has gone up 49% from the same period last year and 1,034% from the last quarter. The reason for this lower net income is due to the lower net revenue and higher provision for credit losses over the period.
The Corporate and Investment Banking segment's net revenues fell 15.1% to $8.61 billion in the first quarter. However, the revenues increased 43% compared to the last quarter. The provision for credit losses increased 345% from the same period last year and 358% from the previous quarter. Moreover, the net income for the quarter declined 24.1% to $1.98 billion, attributing to the lower revenues in the period.
The Commercial Banking segment showed an improvement in the provisions for credit losses of 88% from the previous quarter and 87% compared to the same period last year. The net revenues for the quarter stood at $1.65 billion with a decrease of 1.2% year-over-year. The segment contributed net income of $578 million, down by 3%.
Revenues from the Asset Management group for the quarter rose 4.9% to $2.78 billion. The most compelling measure in this segment is the provision for credit losses, which decreased 143% from the same period last year as well as from the prior quarter. Moreover, the non-interest expenses increased by 11% from the last year while decreasing 8% from the previous quarter. This is due to the higher headcount expenses and other costs in the segment.
Share Buyback and Dividends
Financial institutions went through the Federal Reserves' stress test recently, which JPMorgan passed, and as a result, was allowed to increase its dividends and share repurchases. JPMorgan's Tier-1 common ratio was 9.5% with the criteria of a minimum Tier-1 common ratio of 5%. Following this, the company has increased its dividends for the current quarter to $0.4 per share from $0.38 during the previous quarter. Moreover, JPMorgan repurchased $400 million worth of stock during the first quarter. The management also authorized share repurchases of $6.5 billion by the first quarter of 2015.
Future Guidance
The company has decreased its revenue guidance for the second quarter, which negatively impacted the stock price. The continued challenging environment and lower client activity levels in the market led the company to forecast a 20% decline in fixed income and equities trading revenues for the second quarter. However, a decline of 20% from the revenues in the same period last year, along with $4.3 billion profits for the first quarter will prove to be the lowest first half results since the financial crisis.
Conclusion
These recent setbacks to the banking sector look to be short term, as the economic growth and the fundamentals of the sector remain strong. As a result of these setbacks, some of the biggest players in the banking sector are trading at a discount. We believe that these challenges are short term, and the JPMorgan should grow its revenues in the medium to long term. At current price levels, JPM is an attractive investment for patient investors.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050618:00
SYMBOL = HAL
The Completion and Production segment is largely responsible for the growth realized by the company, with the segment’s revenues edging up by approximately 7.8% YoY.
In the U.S. region Halliburton has been facing challenges lately related to weather conditions, increasing competition, high logistics costs, and oversupply of hydraulic fracturing equipment.
The U.S. revenues are expected to remain flattish for FY2014 owing to limited activity in GoM and Brazil.
Halliburton Co. (NYSE:HAL) is one of the leading global organizations that provide products and services to the energy sector. The company just released its earnings for the first quarter of FY2014 which led to a 3.3% rise in the stock price of the company. The stock price has risen by 24% since the start of the year.
Revenue Distribution
The revenues of the company are distributed among two reportable segments, namely Completion and Production and Drilling and Evaluation, wherein 60% of the revenues are attributable to the former segment. Geographically, North America is the major region for the company since more than half the revenues are attributable to said region. The remaining half of the revenues is distributed amongst the Middle East, Asia, Europe, Africa, and Latin America. Contribution of each region is indicated in the pie chart below according to the numbers reported in the 2013 annual report.
Earnings and Estimates
As per the earnings release for the first quarter of FY2014, the company has outperformed the analysts' estimates for its top and bottom lines. Total revenues of the company were $7.3 billion compared to Thomson Reuters' consensus of $7.24 billion. For the three months ended, the top line of the company grew approximately 5.40% compared to the same period last year.
Of the $7.3 billion reported revenues the net profit of the company was reported to be $622 million and per share earnings stood at $0.73beating analysts' estimates by 2 cents. Compared to the performance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 the company's EPS grew by approximately 9%. Last year, the bottom line was heavily impacted due to a litigation charge of $1 billion (pre-tax) in reference to the Deepwater Horizon incidence that occurred back in 2010 where Halliburton was one of the parties involved. Eleven people died as a consequence of the explosion in the GoM region in 2010 which caused the worst oil spill in history. This is the major reason for the reduced activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
Growth Or Lack Thereof
Analyzing the revenues by segment, it becomes apparent that the completion and production segment is largely responsible for the inherent growth realized by the company. The segment's revenue has increased by about 7.8% YoY. Although drilling and evaluation showed positive results as well, the revenue increase of 1.90% in this segment was not as significant. Again, the reduced performance of the segment is due to reduced drilling operations in Brazil and Mexico among other reasons. Geographically, the European, Middle Eastern, and African regions have shown the highest growth. Revenues from these regions increased 11% whereas the operating income across these locations grew 16%. Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Malaysia, and Indonesia also showed strong performance.
With regards to the U.S. region, the company has been facing challenges lately related to weather conditions, increasing competition, high logistics costs, and oversupply of hydraulic fracturing equipment. The rise in competition and oversupply has led to a downward pressure on prices, hurting the aggregate U.S. revenues. But since Halliburton is a long standing and large organization it has certain cost advantages compared to smaller competitors in the market. The company is taking immediate steps to haul in costs to bolster its margin performance. However, owing to limited activity in the Gulf of Mexico and Brazil, revenue from the region is expected to remain flattish for FY2014.
Financial Standing
Further scrutiny of the earnings report indicates that the company's long term debt remained constant compared to the same quarter last year, whereas the company's cash flow from operations position improved by 173% YoY. The company maintains a better current and quick ratio compared to its peers hovering around 2.73 and 2.04 respectively, whereas the industry average for said ratios is around 1.65 and 0.68 respectively. The company also maintains higher than industry average operating and net profit margins.
Concluding Remarks
In the second quarter of FY2014, Halliburton hopes its EPS increases at the rate of 25% owing to strong profit growth expected from the company's offshore operations and rebound expected in the North American operations. Halliburton's forecast meets with the general analyst consensus for the quarter. Furthermore, Halliburton distributes profits among shareholders through cash dividend payments and share repurchases. The company has repurchased shares worth $500 million in the first quarter of the year, reducing the share count by about nine million common shares. The company hopes to bring down the share count to 850 million by the end of the second quarter of 2014.
The cash payments have risen at a CAGR of 15.2% over the past three years. The fact that the company's top and bottom lines are anticipated to rise in the foreseeable future and the fact that it rewards its shareholders well means Halliburton looks like a sound investment to me.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050718:10
SYMBOL = KTWO
Global medical device company focused on designing, developing and commercializing innovative and proprietary minimally invasive complex spine technologies and techniques.
Losses are increasing, and medical devices are notoriously difficult to introduce successfully.
Principal competitors include Medtronic Spine and Biologics, DePuy Synthes, Stryker, Globus Medical and NuVasive, which together represent a significant portion of the spine market.
Based in Leesburg, VA, K2M Group Holdings (NASDAQ:KTWO) scheduled a $150 million IPO on the Nasdaq with a market capitalization of $630 million at a price range midpoint of $17 for Thursday, May 8, 2014.
The full IPO calendar is available at IPOpremium.
SEC Documents 
Manager, Joint managers: Piper Jaffray, Barclays, Wells Fargo Securities
Co-Managers: William Blair, Cowen & Company
End of lockup (180 days): Tuesday, November 4, 2014
End of 25-day quiet period: Monday, June 2, 2014
Summary
KTWO is a global medical device company focused on designing, developing and commercializing innovative and proprietary minimally invasive complex spine technologies and techniques.
Losses are increasing, and medical devices are notoriously difficult to introduce successfully, especially when principal competitors include Medtronic Spine and Biologics, DePuy Synthes, Stryker, Globus Medical and NuVasive, which together represent a significant portion of the spine market.
The rating on KTWO is neutral to negative.
To put the conclusions and observations in context, the following is reorganized, edited and summarized from the full S-1 referenced above.
Business
KTWO is a global medical device company focused on designing, developing and commercializing innovative and proprietary complex spine technologies and techniques.
KTWO's complex spine products are used by spine surgeons to treat some of the most difficult and challenging spinal pathologies such as deformity (primarily scoliosis), trauma and tumor.
KTWO believes these procedures typically receive a higher rate of positive insurance coverage and often generate more revenue per procedure as compared to other spine surgery procedures.
Product development expertise
KTWO has applied its product development expertise in innovating complex spine technologies and techniques to the design, development and commercialization of an expanding number of proprietary minimally invasive surgery (MIS) products.
These proprietary MIS products are designed to allow for less invasive access to the spine and faster patient recovery times compared to traditional open access surgical approaches.
KTWO has also leveraged these core competencies in the design, development and commercialization of an increasing number of products for patients suffering from degenerative spinal conditions.
KTWO categorizes its revenue in the United States among revenue generated from treatment of complex spine pathologies, treatment using MIS approaches and the treatment of degenerative spinal conditions.
KTWO defines its complex spine procedures as those that involve the treatment of the most difficult and challenging spinal pathologies, such as deformity (primarily scoliosis), trauma and tumor.
Minimally invasive procedures
KTWO considers MIS procedures as those involving products designed to allow for less invasive access to the spine and faster patient recovery times as compared to traditional open access surgical approaches.
KTWO categorizes degenerative procedures as those involving products treating degenerative spinal conditions such as traditional spinal fusions.
Biomaterials revenue
KTWO reports revenue related to the sale of biomaterials as part of its complex spine, MIS and degenerative spine revenue categories.
KTWO expects its revenue to continue to be driven by aggregate sales growth in all categories.
KTWO's revenue classifications may evolve as it grows its business, continue to commercialize new products, adapt to surgeon preferences and surgical techniques and expand its sales globally.
Dividend Policy
KTWO intends to use a portion of the net proceeds from this offering to pay all accumulated and unpaid dividends on its Series A Preferred and its Series B Preferred. However, KTWO has no current plans to pay dividends on its common stock.
Intellectual Property
As of December 31, 2013, KTWO owned 103 issued U.S. patents, 60 issued foreign patents, 105 pending U.S. patent applications and 70 pending foreign patent applications.
As of December 31, 2013, KTWO also had 27 U.S. trademark registrations, 62 foreign trademark registrations, five pending U.S. applications to register trademarks and 28 foreign applications to register trademark registrations.
Competition
KTWO is aware of several companies that compete or are developing technologies in its current and future product areas.
As a result, KTWO expects competition to remain intense. KTWO believes that its principal competitors include Medtronic Spine and Biologics, DePuy Synthes, Stryker, Globus Medical and NuVasive, which together represent a significant portion of the spine market.
KTWO also competes with smaller spine market participants such as Alphatec Spine, Biomet, LDR Holding Corporation, Orthofix and Zimmer.
Use of proceeds
KTWO expects to net $136 million from its IPO. Proceeds are allocated as follows:
to retire all $39.2 million of the indebtedness outstanding under the Shareholder Notes,
to pay all $19.1 million of accumulated and unpaid dividends on its Series A Preferred and its Series B Preferred,
to repay all $23.5 million of the outstanding borrowings under its revolving credit facility and
for working capital and general corporate purposes. KTWO's use of proceeds from this offering for working capital and general corporate purposes is currently expected to include $6 million to expand its global distribution network by hiring qualified sales employees and purchasing inventory to support sales efforts and $10.5 million in connection with its expected relocation to a new leased headquarters facility in 2015.
Disclaimer: This KTWO IPO report is based on a reading and analysis of KTWO's S-1 filing, which can be found here, and a separate, independent analysis by IPOdesktop.com. There are no unattributed direct quotes in this article.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050718:20
SYMBOL = GLD
Transitory geopolitical influences will only generate short-term rallies in GLD.
Investors should be watching ETF outflows, rather than unrelated news headlines.
Inability to generate significant momentum and break the September 2013 highs creates added cause for concern.
Those bullish on SPDR Gold Trust ETF (NYSEARCA:GLD) have been on the receiving end of positive news for the last few months, as those basing investment decision on safe-haven arguments have been able to generate moderate gains in the ETF. When we look at GLD on a year-to-date basis, gains of nearly 7% must seen encouraging after the carnage of 2013. But it is important to keep the broader view in mind and if we assess these markets over the last full year the performance in GLD is still holding in negative territory. For those with long exposure to assets tied to the underlying gold price, this should be cause for concern as the best arguments to buy these assets are transitory in nature.
Geopolitical Tensions
To be sure, there is little reason to believe that the potential for enhanced military conflicts between Russia and the Ukraine will be ending any time soon. There are plenty of individual scenarios that suggest these stories are set to continue for the time being (here and here we can see some recent examples). But the transitory effects of these types of situations have a limited lifespan and we have seen little in the way of supportive arguments that have directly influenced the supply and demand dynamics of the gold-backed ETF. The rallies that we have seen so far this year can be described as a self-fulfilling prophecy based on safe-haven expectations -- and the fact that even these gains have been limited suggests that bullish positions are in danger.
Fund Outflows in GLD
If you have exposure in GLD, the critical area of concern should be center around the fact that outflow numbers continue to build, as this is a primary suggestion that this year's bullish moves will be short-lived. As of last Friday, the fund said its holdings had dropped below 783 tonnes -- indicating that outflows had reached 10 tonnes for the week. This activity has been matched in the futures and options space, as hedge funds continue to face the reality of the broader environment and cut positions.
These changes are based on the assumption that the Federal Reserve remains on course to end its stimulus programs, and that any Ukraine-fueled rallies will ultimately be short-lived. An improving U.S. economy and the prospect for higher interest rates will continue to weigh on the gold-backed ETFs, the largest of which is GLD. If U.S. bond yields are rising, precious metals assets look much less attractive as they produce no income.
The latest round of employment figures was particularly strong, with monthly jobs addition rising at the fastest rate in over two years. In the chart above, we can see that the unemployment rate also dropped by more than the consensus estimates, falling to 6.3% (its lowest level in nearly 6 years). For those bullish on GLD, a critical question will need to be asked: Do you expect safe-haven influences that are based on geopolitical fears in the Ukraine to outweigh the longer-term influence of US economic trends? If your answer is yes, it might be time to start adding long exposure while valuations are still relatively low. If not, it is a good idea to avoid GLD.
On a short-term basis, those bullish on GLD might see encouraging signs. But for those that are looking at the wider trends, there is still very little reason to get excited. We have already posted a lower high following the sub-140 gains from last September and the inability for markets to generate any real momentum from here poses cause for concern on a chart basis as well. When this activity is viewed against the fundamental backdrop substantial long positions look excessively risky at current levels.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050718:33
SYMBOL = CTCT
Compared to previous quarters on a sequential basis, Constant Contact's revenue growth rate in Q1 2014 was higher.
Gross margins expanded significantly for the quarter, reaching 72.5% compared to 70.8% in Q1 2013.
Various drivers contributed to the company's strong Q1 performance.
First-quarter results for Constant Contact (NASDAQ:CTCT) were better than guided on revenues and net income. Quarterly revenues stood 15.6% higher on a year-on-year basis, at $79 million. Compared to previous quarters on a sequential basis, the revenue growth rate in Q1 2014 was higher. The company continued to add new customers every quarter, with overall unique new customers reaching 605,000 from 595,000 at the end of December 2013. Additionally, an acceleration in average revenue per user (ARPU) boosted sales this quarter. Q1 2014 ARPU was close to $43.82, compared to $42.33 in Q4 2013 and $40.60 in Q1 2013. The acceleration in ARPU is a result of increased cross-selling activities from the company.
Gross margins expanded significantly for the quarter, reaching 72.5% compared to 70.8% in Q1 2013. This expansion in gross margins is a result of an increase in cross-sales from the company, as well. Increased cross-sales typically result in margin expansion because costs remain the same for each additional sell. Moreover, the company reported a first quarter operating profit for the first time in the past three years. Q1'14 operating profit stood at $1.15 million, compared to a loss of $2.67 million in Q1'13. This operating profit also resulted in a net profit of approximately $0.85 million for the quarter despite a net tax expense of $1.18 million.
In this earnings article, we take a look at various drivers that have contributed to Constant Contact's strong Q1 performance.
Toolkit Should Drive ARPU And Unique Customers
Constant Contact introduced a new product offering called Toolkit that provides an easy way for small businesses and non-profit organizations to launch multiple campaign types across high-return marketing channels such as email, social, mobile and Web. This bundled offering has three different packages: basic, essential and ultimate. The basic versions of these packages are priced at $20 a month, $45 a month and $195 a month respectively, and have limited contact list sizes. Pricing increases as the list size of the business increases across all packages.
This particular two-axis pricing structure, that changes with the selected package as well as the list size of the business, provides a dynamic way to grow its ARPU. The company reports a penetration rate between 50% and 60% from new customers for its Essential package. This penetration rate should expand further as bundled offerings provide businesses with a more holistic marketing product. Similarly, signing larger businesses for its toolkit offering should drive ARPU as larger businesses have bigger contact mailing lists. We believe such bundled offerings provide Constant Contact with an opportunity to boost ARPU as well as expand its customer base going forward.
For fiscal 2014, the company expects revenues of approximately $330 million, with ARPU ranging between $46 and $47. We have revised our Trefis price estimate to $31 for Constant Contact to reflect better growth prospects in its customer base and ARPU beginning 2014.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050721:25
SYMBOL = TSLA
Tesla reported solid quarterly results, but shares fell 8% as investors focused on rising expenses and a stretched valuation.
Tesla is making progress in expanding production and should produce 1,000 cars per week by the end of the year, though deliveries have lagged production.
Tesla will be free cash flow negative as it spends on expanding capacity, but it has the balance sheet to fund this spending.
Tesla will need to maintain this pace of production growth and cut the battery cost to generate the revenue and profit necessary to justify the valuation.
Under the best case, Tesla can earn $10 in 2017, and investors who believe in the bull case should wait until $150 to buy shares.
Tesla (NASDAQ:TSLA), which is arguably the most popular of the momentum stocks, reported first-quarter results after the bell on Wednesday. By and large, the company did report solid numbers, but shares fell by around 8% after-hours. With its current multiple, Tesla has an amazingly high bar, and the good results are simply not enough to move shares higher. After all, Tesla's market capitalization is nearly half of General Motors' (NYSE:GM) despite the fact it sells 1% as many cars. It goes without saying that Tesla is growing exponentially faster than a mature company like GM, but with this valuation discrepancy, it needs to deliver perfect results with the promise of uninterrupted growth. Otherwise, future cash flows may not justify the current lofty valuation.
In the first quarter, TSLA earned $0.12 on $713 million in non-GAAP revenue while analysts were looking for $0.10 on sales of $700 million (all financial and operating data available here). Revenue was up 27% year over year. On a GAAP basis, revenue was $620 million because of the deferral of lease revenue. Gross margins were solid at 25.4%, up 20bp sequentially, and gross margins should continue to increase next quarter with the potential of reaching 28% by the end of the year as retrofitting expenses decline. With only $0.12 in earnings, Tesla will need to dramatically grow revenues over time to justify a share price over $180.
To do this, Tesla has been adding capacity to meet the demand for its luxury electric cars. Tesla's already announced, but yet to be located, Gigafactory will play a critical role in expanding capacity and lowering the cost of batteries so Tesla can offer a cheaper model. We are seeing the company make progress on capacity issues, and the company produced 7,535 model S cars. Production is now running at nearly 700 vehicles per week, up 15% from the fourth quarter. By the end of the year, Tesla expects to increase production by about 56% to 1,000 vehicles per week. Thanks to investments in capacity and production increases from suppliers, production should increase another 16% sequentially to 8,500-9,000 vehicles in the second quarter.
One slightly disappointing metric was car deliveries, which continue to lag production. First quarter deliveries were 6,457, which was below the fourth quarter's 6,892. In the second quarter, it expects to deliver 7,500 vehicles. This means that in the first half of the year, Tesla will produce about 2,250 more cars than it delivers. Tesla blames this discrepancy and longer lead-times for deliveries in Asia. These vehicles are mainly in transit to Asia and Europe, but in the second half of the year, I hope to see Tesla improve delivery times to minimize this difference and avoid a significant backlog.
To expand capacity and maintain its technical edge, Tesla is spending aggressively. Operating expenses doubled year over year, dwarfing the 27% revenue gain. SG&A spending was up 150% year over year, while R&D jumped 48%. This spending binge is not over, either, as SG&A should increase 15% quarter on quarter while R&D outlays will jump 31%. Thanks to these increases, Tesla will only be "marginally profitable" in the second quarter.
This spending binge also is impacting cash flow. Operating cash flow was $61 million in the quarter, but capital expenditures totaled $141 million. For the full year, TSLA expects cap-ex spending to be $650-$850 million. For the full year, Tesla will be free cash flow negative. Tesla has the balance sheet to afford this spending. At the end of the quarter, cash and short-term investments were $2.58 billion against $2.11 billion in long-term debt for a comfortable net cash position of $470 million. With this cash balance, Tesla can afford to be slightly free cash flow negative in order to invest in growth.
Investing in growth is critical because Tesla needs to accelerate revenue growth over the next three years if it is going to justify its current valuation. Tesla is making good progress in expanding production with its 1,000 vehicles per week end of year forecast. With this progress, Tesla is on track to deliver 44-50% revenue growth in 2015 on top of this year's 46-50% growth. Even then, Tesla will be delivering less than 55,000 vehicles in 2015, which gives it about $3.00 in earnings power. To merit today's price, Tesla will need to maintain the current pace of production growth and robust gross margins for several years.
If Tesla can get to 150,000 vehicles in 2017, it can generate about $8-10 in earnings power. To do that, Tesla will need to continue to expand production and significantly cut the cost of batteries to introduce an entry-level model that more consumers can afford. Even under this best-case scenario, Tesla is trading 18x earnings that are three years away. There is still significant risk that production growth becomes slower or that battery costs remain elevated. There is also the ever-present risk that another automaker is able to deliver competitive battery technology and steal share back from Tesla, which would dampen growth.
Tesla is a high-risk investment. The company is performing well and has a fantastic product; there is no doubt about that. Valuation, though, ignores the significant execution risk as it isn't easy to increase production six-fold over four years. Even if it does that, an 18x 2017 earnings multiple is not particularly cheap. Investors who are bullish on Tesla and believe CEO Elon Musk can continue to deliver should probably wait for the pullback to deepen before buying shares. At 15x 2017 bullish estimates or around $140-$150, Tesla does make sense as a speculative long for investors who believe in the growth story. Either way, if you had to buy a stock today and were not allowed to sell it for four years, I continue to believe you will do better buying GM. Tesla is priced for perfection, and letting the stock pull back further is the prudent strategy.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050715:44
SYMBOL = MON
Growing population will increase the demand for agricultural inputs.
Expiration of patents could affect its immediate revenue forecasts.
Long-term opportunities will come from Monsanto’s record R&D pipeline.
2013 was a good year for Monsanto Company (NYSE:MON). Shareholders of the company must be quite happy as its share price moved more than 24% last year, from $93 per share to more than $116 per share. The company has also shown decent growth in its top and bottom lines, and delivered a high return on equity.
Due to growing population, global food demand is increasing. Increasing food demand will benefit Monsanto, as this will drive the demand for agricultural inputs such as pesticides, fertilizers, and genetically modified seeds. The world population is expected to increase from 6.9 billion in 2010 to 8.3 billion in 2030 and 9.1 billion in 2050. By 2030, food demand is predicted to increase by 50% (70% by 2050).
According to a research report, the global commercial seeds market is expected to increase from $34.5 billion in 2011 to $53.32 billion in 2018. During the same period, the bioseeds market will increase from $15.6 billion to 30.21 billion, growing at a CAGR of 9.9% from 2012 to 2018. Rapid development of bioseeds, also known as Genetically Modified (GM) seeds is one of the primary factors affecting the growth of the commercial seeds market. Monsanto has served as a pioneer in the agricultural chemicals industry for over a century. As the industry pioneer and market share leader, it is uniquely positioned to profit from these robust macroeconomic drivers, and continue to lead a growing industry over the next several years.
Monsanto has two main business segments: Seeds and Genomics, and Agricultural Productivity. The company's agricultural productivity segment will face stiffer competition in the next few years as its key patents will be set to expire. Like the patent for Roundup Ready soybean will expire in 2014, which means Monsanto will no longer collect trait fees. The technology will be accessible from others in the market and farmers will have a chance to purchase elsewhere, possibly for a lower price. The company believes that expiration of such patents will affect margins on original products. Patent and license expirations make product sales volumes and revenues hard to sustain in the long-term. However, I believe Monsanto will sustain market share by innovating and reaching developing countries.
Each year, Monsanto spends 9%-10% of its revenue on Research & Development (R&D) because success in the market is tied to being the first mover with the most superior technology. The company's management has expressed that they will increase Research and Development efforts in the coming years. By continuing to invest an increasingly larger proportion of funds into research and development, it stands poised to produce new and innovative seeds, traits, and other products that will create organic revenue growth and further cement its market share. Critical to the long-term success of Monsanto will be its strong pipeline. The company announced earlier this year in an annual R&D update that a record 29 of its products progressed in its pipeline.
Other long-term opportunities will come from the increasing biotech adoption on a global scale. According to The International Service for the Acquisition of Agri-Biotech Applications (ISAAA) report, more than 18 million farmers in 27 countries planted biotech crops in 2013, reflecting a five million, or three percent, increase in global biotech crop hectarage. Of the countries planting biotech crops, eight are industrial countries and 19 are developing countries. For the second year, developing countries planted more hectares of biotech crops than industrialized countries. As the EU and other developing regions continue to reassess the benefits of genetically modified crops, Monsanto will be well-positioned to gain from widening acceptance. Finally, the global demographics are unequivocally supportive of industry growth. As the leader by market share, the company will continue to exploit its competitive advantage of first-to-market so as to capture enormous profit in the midst of an exponentially growing industry.
Monsanto's primary rivals are DuPont (NYSE:DD) and Syngenta AG (NYSE:SYT). Over the past few years, both companies have invested millions of dollars in their own seeds and traits businesses. Some of the key statistics for Monsanto and its competitors are given below.
The chart represents that Monsanto's stats are almost as good or better than its competitors. Monsanto's return on assets ratio is higher than Syngenta and DuPont. Higher return on assets means the company is more efficiently using its assets which is a sign of great management. Also, its quarterly revenue and earnings growth is highest among the three.
Monsanto's current ratio is much higher than Syngenta and DuPont. A higher current ratio means the company is more capable of paying its obligations. Monsanto also has done a good job managing their debt. Its total debt/equity ratio is 22.80x, the lowest among the three. Lower values of debt-to-equity ratio are favorable indicating less risk. A lower debt/equity ratio means that a company is using less leverage and has a stronger equity position. With low debt levels, Monsanto will have the opportunity to compete in future global M&A and develop more innovative biotechnology products for farmers.
Looking at dividends, Monsanto has maintained a dividend since its incorporation in 2000 and has continually increased its dividend during periods of economic growth and stability. Although, its dividend is not attractive when compared with DuPont and Syngenta, but I believe its leading market share, continued R&D pipeline, and stable financial reward investors through real stock price returns.
Future of Monsanto looks bright. The company is well-positioned to benefit from growing commercial seeds market. Through its ongoing commitment to research and development, the company will continue to dominate a market that it essentially created more than a decade ago. In my opinion, Monsanto is a strong buy right now.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050716:17
SYMBOL = BAC
Bank of America held the company’s Annual meeting for shareholders Wednesday.
Three major positives regarding the bank’s future prospects were discussed.
The recent selloff appears excessive when considering the big picture for the bank.
Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) just completed the company's Annual shareholder meeting on Wednesday. As I expected, several key factors discussed at the meeting underpin my thesis the bank is an excellent buying opportunity right now. In the following sections, I will discuss what I perceive to be the top three highlights from the meeting.
Three Major Positive Highlights
Global banking loan and deposit growth is rising.
Average loans and leases are up approximately 11% year-over-year with the bank posting $271 billion in 2013 vs. $244 billion in 2012. Moreover, Deposits are up nearly 16% year-over-year growing from $221 billion in 2012 to $256 billion in 2013.
Bank of America has achieved this growth by providing excellent customer service and focusing on the company's core strengths. The bank has gained significant market share. Bank of America is one of the top three global players in Corporate and Investment Banking and continues to gain market share. Furthermore, the bank is ranked second in middle market products as well. The growth in loans, leases and deposits is a sure sign the bank is on the right track regarding organic growth.
Vastly improving net income and EPS
Net income was up nearly two fold year-over-year with the bank posting $11.4 billion in 2013 vs. $4.2 billion in 2012. Furthermore, diluted EPS was up significantly year-over-year at 0.90 for 2013 vs. 0.25 in 2012.
While revenues have mostly stabilized over the past year, the bank has done a bang up job cleaning house. When Moynihan took over the bank was a sprawling mess. The buyouts of Merrill Lynch and Countrywide mortgage had made the bank practically unmanageable. Nonetheless, this left Moynihan with plenty of costs to cut and operations to streamline. It has been a long tedious process, yet the bank has successfully navigated the pitfalls and come out on top. The exponential increase in net income and EPS is proof positive of this.
Reduced non-interest expenses
Over the past three years, Bank of America has reduced non-interest expense by approximately 11%.
Bank of America has been laser focused on cost cutting. The bank has significantly reduced brick and mortar banking centers as more and more people move to a mobile banking platform. Additionally, the company has cut overheads significantly by folding in like divisions from both Merrill and Countrywide, creating significant cost synergy savings. Furthermore, I expect this trend to continue as Moynihan's cost cutting program is nowhere near complete.
The lone negative, if you can call it that, is that revenue growth has remained muted at approximately $90 billion over the past three years.
Nonetheless, revenue has stabilized and at least it is not deteriorating. Even so, Bank of America will need to show an uptick in revenue growth going forward for the stock to continue higher. Financial engineering and cost cutting can only take you so far.
Conclusion
Bank of America has been hit by several major negative headlines as of late. Legal liability issues coupled with a major snafu regarding the bank's capital return plan have taken their toll on the stock. Nonetheless, you must see the forest through the trees. Once market participants recover from recent headlines and focus on the fundamentals, I submit buyers will appear in droves. I submit anyone who takes the time to do some serious due diligence will find the bank is extremely undervalued at current levels.
Final Thought
The bank has until May 27 to resubmit financial templates to the Fed regarding the capital return plan. The central bank will then have 75 days to respond. With the recent news Warren Buffett's preferred shares have been reclassified to non-accumulative, effectively resolving the regulatory capital issue, I'd say the bank has a good chance to have the plan reinstated. The successful resolution of this issue should be a major catalyst for the stock going forward. The bank is a buy in my book.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050716:19
SYMBOL = DIS
The studio success of Frozen continues to trickle down to all other business units.
Growth for 2016 and beyond seems secured through the Shanghai Park opening.
Buy this extremely well-run high quality company on the dips.
The Walt Disney Company (NYSE:DIS) continues to show excellent momentum driven by double-digit revenue and earnings growth at the moment.
The company continues to show impressive results across all of its business units in anticipation of even more growth in the near future with the Shanghai opening planned within the next 18 months.
Disney reported second quarter revenues of $11.65 billion, up 10% compared to a year earlier. Even more important for investors, earnings were up by 27% to $1.92 billion.
A modest pace of share repurchases resulted in 30% earnings per share growth towards $1.08 per share. Earnings were impacted by a net charge of $0.03 per share driven by various positive and negative items. This included a $143 million charge related to the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency, among others.
Media And Parks Remain Cash Cows
Revenues at media networks were up by 4% to $5.13 billion marking both the biggest and slowest growing business unit of the company. Cable networking revenues rose by 5% to $3.63 billion driven by success of ESPN and domestic Disney channels. Operating earnings of the unit rose by 15% to $1.97 billion, for incredible operating margins of 54.2%.
Broadcasting revenues have been flat at $1.50 billion, while operating earnings improved by 15% to $159 million on stricter cost control.
Revenues at the parks and resorts business were up by 8% to $3.56 billion while profitability rose by 19% to $457 million despite an unfavorable shift of the Easter holiday weekend. Strong spending and attendance both domestically and in Hong Kong offset continued weakness in the Paris park.
Recently, Disney announced the acceleration of its expansion in Shanghai at a cost of roughly $0.8 billion. While this has been driven by cost inflation, it also raises the hopes for the performance of the park. The park, which is expected to open late in 2015, could be huge with 330 million potential guests living within a three-hour travel trip of the park.
Studio, Consumer Products And Interactive Drive Growth
Studio entertainment revenues rose by 35% to $1.80 billion with very strong operating leverage resulting in operating earnings increasing from $118 to $475 million. Of course, the huge success of Frozen and Thor to a lesser extent are the main drivers behind the growth.
Consumer sales were very healthy as well with revenues up 16% to $885 million. Operating earnings rose to a very impressive $274 million driven by Frozen, the Disney Channel, Mickey and Minnie, among others.
The interactive business managed to report a small profit of $14 million thanks to sales of 3 million Disney Infinity games. Revenues were up strongly as well, increasing by 38% to $268 million.
Valuation
Disney ended the quarter with $4.1 billion in cash and equivalents, while holding a net debt position of roughly $11.5 billion. Given the strong free cash flow characteristics of the business with relatively few capital investment requirements, this should be no problem.
At the current pace, Disney could report revenues of about $50 billion and earnings, which approach $8 billion. At $81 per share, Disney's equity is valued at $142 billion, the equivalent of 2.8 times annual revenues and 17-18 times annual earnings.
The company repurchased shares at a rate of about 3% per annum over the past year while the annual dividend of $0.86 provides investors with a yield of another 1.1%.
Capital Light And Synergistic Business Model
Disney's business model is hugely attractive for two main reasons. For starters, Disney has to make very few capital expenditures. Its $1.4 billion capital expenditures budget for the first half of this year is focused on parks and resorts, notably the Shanghai Disney Resort. Excluding the construction of this theme park, capital expenditures would be just a few hundred million.
In the meantime, studio titles continue to perform extremely well. Frozen which was released in November of last year has already grossed $1.18 billion. Captain America, which was released as recent as April 4 grossed $682 million.
These successes create short-term profits for the studios but long lasting and even more profitable cash flows through increased park attendance, the Disney Channel and merchandise. To illustrate the success of the trickle-down strategy, on the conference call CFO Jay Rasulo admitted that 9 out of the 10 best selling items in its stores were Frozen merchandise.
Implications For Investors
Disney continues to show real momentum, which is unlikely to slow down in a serious way ahead of the Shanghai park opening. The impact of the opening could be huge on future earnings growth while Bob Iger continues to run the company in a very good manner.
That being said, a lot of good news has been priced in already with shares doubling from $40 at the start of 2012 in a rather linear move. While shares still hold some appeal based on the quality and growth of earnings, I would be more comfortable being able to buy shares on a significant dip around $70-$75 per share.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050716:49
SYMBOL = CHK
Chesapeake reported strong production growth in first quarter, hikes its full year production forecast.
Operational cash flows are set to surpass capital expenditures this year.
Leverage reduction and production growth reveals long term potential for shares.
Investors in Chesapeake Energy (NYSE:CHK) continue to be pleased with the troubled natural gas and oil producer's progress to reduce leverage and grow the business in a controlled manner.
Strong production and earnings, lower capital expenditures and asset sales have improved the cash flow picture dramatically in Chesapeake's quest to reduce debt. I continue to be a buyer on the dips.
Chesapeake Energy reported strong growth for the first quarter with revenues increasing by 47.4% to $5.05 billion. The strong topline growth resulted in strong earnings growth with GAAP earnings increasing from just $15 million last year to $374 million over the past quarter.
Adjusted earnings rose from $0.30 to $0.59 per share, coming in at $405 million.
Strong Operating Performance
Chesapeake reported production of 675,200 barrels of oil-equivalent per day, up 11% after adjusting for divestments. The strong production in the first quarter prompted the company to increase its full year adjusted production outlook from 8-10% growth to 9-12%.
The shift towards oil and NGL production as well as high natural gas prices during the harsh winter, combined with strict cost control for general & administrative costs, were the big drivers behind earnings growth. To illustrate, realized natural gas prices rose by 72% to $3.27 per thousand cubic feet. Note that while Chesapeake focuses more on oil and less on gas, the latter energy source still makes up the vast majority of production.
Oil production came in at 109,500 barrels, NGL production totaled 84,200 barrels while the remainder of production was natural gas. Adjusting for sales it was NGL production, which rose by 63%, oil production increased by 20% and the natural gas production rose 4%.
Capital Expenditure Cut
While production continues to grow on the back of past investments, Chesapeake is actually cutting back on current capital investments. Its investment budget was cut in half to $850 million in the first quarter.
As a matter of fact, the company aims to increase activity levels of capital expenditures compared to the first quarter. Despite increased investments throughout the year, investments will still come in below the levels of last year. Annual capital expenditures are now seen between $5.2 and $5.6 billion.
At the midpoint of this range, capital expenditures will trail expected operating cash flows for the first time in a long time. To illustrate the degree to which expenditures have been cut back, in 2011, Chesapeake's CAPEX budget was $13.4 billion.
As a matter of fact, an incredible 80% of these investments are targeted towards liquids production, at a time when natural gas production still makes up roughly three quarters of total production.
Assets Sales
Despite the growing production and earnings, Chesapeake continues to focus on asset sales to reduce debt and contain the leverage position.
During the quarter, proceeds of $520 million were recorded from asset sales related to equity ownership in Chaparral Energy, the sale of units to Access Midstream Partners L.P. (NYSE:ACMP) as well as in real estate. Chesapeake furthermore stressed that it received $362 million in proceeds in the month of April with more details being announced regarding its disposition strategy on the analyst day on May 16.
Separately, Chesapeake continues to seek out the strategic alternatives for its oilfield service business. A spin-off or an outright sale are being considered at the moment.
An Improved Cash Flow Picture
The combination of growing and profitable production, a big reduction in capital expenditures and divestments boost the operating cash flows available for the firm. Full year operating cash flows are now seen between $5.8 and $6.0 billion, some $700 million more than previously anticipated.
Despite these encouraging developments, total cash stands at just little above a billion as the net debt position of $12.0 billion is essentially unchanged compared to last year. Yet the combination of growing earnings, production, lower capital expenditures and actually growing operations means that relative leverage is coming down rather quickly.
Investors Approve Lawler
Investors are undoubtedly happy with CEO Lawler's performance. Doug Lawler was appointed nearly a year ago as the chief executive and shares have risen nearly 50% over the past year, approaching the $30 barrier.
Under his tenure, the company has increasingly focused on liquids production and asset sales, although these trends were already started by the former CEO, Aubrey McClendon. McClendon was forced out after overspending in the years ahead, thereby saddling Chesapeake with debt.
Implications For Investors
In hindsight the hiring of Lawler and the cold past winter have been the turning point for Chesapeake. Adjusting earnings should quite easily come in above $1 billion and, depending on the weather, could approach a run rate of $1-$2 billion going forwards. This is as production continues to increase in all likelihood.
At $29 per share equity in the energy producer commands a roughly $19 billion valuation. This values the company at 12-13 times earnings assuming $1.5 billion in earnings going forward, which seems very reasonable. Of course, the debt overhang remains, yet progress is being made on a continuous basis and liquidity and solvency fears are off the table, at least in the short term.
With major trends moving in the favorable direction, Chesapeake has passed its turning around point. I continue to be a buyer on decent dips.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050717:26
SYMBOL = FSLR
First Solar's latest results were aided by revenue recognition on its large-scale solar power plants in North America as well as lower balance of system and panel manufacturing costs.
This quarter's strong performance also was partly attributable to the fact that the company recognized 100% of the project revenue from its 139 megawatt Campo Verde project in southern California.
First Solar indicated that it has been able to expand its pipeline of potential business opportunities to around 12.2 gigawatts, with around 1.25 GW of the deals in the mid-to-late stages.
First Solar (NASDAQ:FSLR) posted a strong set of Q1 2014 results on May 6, beating market expectations on both earnings and revenues. The company's results were aided by revenue recognition on its large scale solar power plants in North America as well as lower balance of system and panel manufacturing costs. Quarterly revenues rose by around 25% year-over-year to around $950 million, while net income grew to $112 million from about $59 million a year ago. [1] The company also updated its earnings guidance for 2014, projecting an EPS of around $2.40 t0 $2.80, compared to its previous guidance of $2.20 to $2.60. The company also narrowed its gross margins forecast to between 17% and 18%. We have increased our price estimate for First Solar from $53 to about $66 to account for better margins and improved utility-scale prospects overseas. Below, we discuss a few of the trends that drove the company's earnings and some key changes to our valuation model for the company.
Revenue Recognition On Campo Verde Project Drives Earnings: First Solar derives about two-thirds of its revenues from its systems business, which involves building, operating and maintaining large-scale solar power plants. The company's results are sometimes volatile, since they are dependent on achieving certain revenue recognition criteria for projects. This quarter's strong performance was partly attributable to the fact that the company recognized 100% of the project revenue from its 139 megawatt (MW) Campo Verde project in southern California. [2] The project, which began construction in late 2012, was sold to Southern Power and Turner Renewable Energy.
Expanding Systems Business Overseas: The company added about 404 MW of new bookings in the quarter, while shipments stood at around 312 MW, translating to a solid book-to-bill ratio of over 1. However, in terms of future expected revenues, the dollar value of bookings fell slightly due to lower pricing. The new bookings include a 53 MW project in Jordan as well as some projects in California. First Solar indicated that it has been able to expand its pipeline of potential business opportunities to around 12.2 gigawatts (GW), with around 1.25 GW of the deals in the mid-to-late stages. While close to 57% of the opportunities come from overseas, the company has been seeing a lot of interest in the United States as well. Through the quarter, the company saw its U.S. opportunity set increase by around 600 MW. This is quite encouraging, since the potential bookings come despite the fact that the U.S. utility-scale solar market could be cooling off. (See Also: Why The U.S. Utility Solar Market Is Slowing Down)
Efficiency Improvements Could Help Costs, Competitiveness: First Solar has been making good progress on the efficiency front. Although the company's Cd-Te panels still trail silicon-based panels in terms of efficiencies, the company's efficiencies have been rising faster than those of many polycrystalline based manufacturers. For instance, over Q1, First Solar's average fleet efficiency improved by about 60 basis points year-over-year to around 13.5%, while the best line efficiencies rose to around 14.2%. [3] Higher conversion efficiencies are beneficial for solar companies for multiple reasons. First, they lower the cost of manufacturing a panel, due to the smaller amount of consumables and raw materials required to produce each watt of panels. Higher efficiencies could result in better pricing power and potentially open up new markets, such as rooftops. This could help the company increase the total addressable market size. The company expects panel efficiencies to improve to 19.5% by 2017, according to information provided during its analyst day conference.
Price Estimate Revised To $66
We have increased our price estimate for First Solar from $53 to about $66, which is slightly below the current market price. Here are some of the key changes to our discounted cash flow model.
1) Increased systems revenues to around $4 billion by the year 2020, to account for better international sales. Our previous estimate for FY 2020 stood at around $3.4 billion (impacted price estimate by roughly +$7.50).
2) Increased the gross margins for the modules business to around 21% by the end of our forecast period, in order to account for lower per-unit manufacturing costs (+$3.50).
3) Changes to net working capital and other assets (+$3).
4)Reduced cash and cash equivalents; increase in share count (-$1.50).
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050717:45
SYMBOL = IRDM
IRDM is undervalued and presents an opportunity for long-term investors.
IRDM is protected by high barriers to entry and a customer in the U.S. government.
IRDM is increasing its market to market services through current and future projects.
IRDM faces risks such as having to raise $3 billion and tough competition.
Iridium Satellite LLC (NASDAQ:IRDM) is the second largest provider of voice and data communications via satellites. Through their constellation of 66 low earth orbit (LOE) satellites and in-orbit spare satellites, IRDM is the only commercial provider offering truly global coverage. Also, IRDM's ability to offer secure transmission of confidential information over public networks has allowed them to sign contracts with the U.S. government.
Bullish Case - Long Term, Undervalued Investment
IRDM has impressive fundamentals with its price to book value at .61, its book value per share at $12.45, and cash per share at $3.32. Moreover, the company is liquid, with a current ratio of 3.38. Adding more conviction is the fact that IRDM is trading just over 10x earnings, which is significantly lower than its industry average of 21.9.
Multiplying IRDM's current EPS of .73 by a modest 15 gives us $10.95 a share. At the time of writing, the stock is trading at $7.32, so this represents an appreciation of 49%. While I don't foresee IRDM increasing by 49% in one quarter, I feel safe in believing that IRDM has the ability to trade at around $11 by Dec 2015.
To help illustrate my optimism for 2015, I have included a graph from Fastgraphs.net.
Analysts predict that IRDM's EPS for 2015 will be .92. After multiplying 2015's predicted EPS by a P/E of 12, we get a per share price at $11.04
I don't know where IRDM will be in one month or one year, but growing EPS as predicted and trading at a P/E of 12 seems doable for IRDM. If the above returns prove to be accurate, IRDM investors will see a total return of 50%. Not too shabby.
High Barriers to Entry That Help IRDM
Any company willing to compete with IRDM will have to scale the high barriers of entry, which include obtaining the proper spectrum licenses and raising enormous amounts of capital. Building, launching, and maintaining a fleet of satellites while also erecting the necessary building infrastructure needed to allow communications with the "birds" is no simple task. Iridium has a brand name and quality reputation. Also, IRDM is the only commercial provider that offers truly global coverage. Furthermore, IRDM appeals to the U.S. government due to its ability to safely and securely transmit messages over public networks.
Increasing Customers, Including a Lucrative Government Contract
Iridium is increasing customers. In comparison to 2012, 2013 saw an increase of worldwide subscribers by 9%. Subscribers include the U.S. and foreign governments, non-governmental organizations and consumers such as emergency services, maritime, aviation, construction, and transportation. Many of Iridium's users view their products and services as critical to their daily operations.
Iridium and the U.S. government:
Representing 19% of Iridium's revenue, the U.S. government is IRDM's largest customer.
The DoD owns and operates its own dedicated gateway that is only compatible with IRDM's satellite network.
Iridium is able to provide secure communications for the government by routing traffic across their satellite constellation before bringing it down to earth through the secure DoD gateway.
The Iridium hardware that the government owns is only compatible with IRDM's satellite network.
IRDM signed a five-year contract with the U.S. government in October of 2013 for $400 million. The contract will provide the government with EMSS services at a fixed price rate.
M2M Services
As the need to communicate and receive real-time updates anywhere in the world increases, people are turning to Iridium for their connectivity needs. Machine to machine (M2M) represents IRDM's fastest growing sector and their largest source of future growth and profits.
According to Iridium, their M2M data subscribers have grown at a 41% compound annual growth rate since 2009, and now represents 44% of IRDM's customer base. The rapid success in M2M can be attributed to the declining cost of goods and services, increasing performance in hardware, penetration of the heavy equipment OEM segment, and signing long-term deals with commercial and government services.
Going Forward With M2M's Success
Today, ship operators are forced to carry several pieces of communications hardware in order to meet Global Maritime Distress and Safety System (GMDSS) standards. To alleviate this problem, IRDM has recently submitted an application to the International Maritime Organization for the provision of mobile satellite communications in GMDSS. If the application is approved then Iridium could begin providing GMDSS services in late 2015.
IRDM's entrance into GMDSS communications will give the maritime industry the option of purchasing a single, affordable communications terminal that will allow the ship to fulfill GMDSS standards and business communications requirements.
In support of Iridium, Admiral Robert E. Day of U.S. Coast Guard said, "We see Iridium's inclusion as a GMDSS service provider as being very important to maritime safety and security on a global basis ... Our preliminary review of the Iridium network capabilities is positive, and we look forward to the possibility of welcoming a new provider of GMDSS services."
Current and Future Projects That Are Out of This World
Iridium GO
Many rural and remote areas throughout the world are unable to utilize telephone services due to the high costs of investing in new switches, landlines and cellular towers. This represents an opportunity for IRDM to tap into a minority market with its products, such as Iridium GO. GO is a compact, rugged, and portable unit that allows users to connect up to five wireless Android or Apple devices onto a single GO. Once connected, users will have the ability to make voice calls, download apps, send and receive SMS messages, check email, and even release an SOS alert.
Iridium NEXT
NEXT represents IRDM's second-generation satellite constellation. Some of NEXT's advantages will include 66 LOE satellites with 6 in-orbit spare satellites, and 9 spares on the ground. Also improving will be the amount of subscribers that IRDM can accommodate. IRDM currently has a 2 million-subscriber capacity, but NEXT will allow for an additional million subscribers. Furthermore, bandwidth speed will be increased, voice quality will be enhanced, and NEXT will be able to host secondary payloads from Iridium's Aireon and Harris (NYSE:HRS).
On April 28, 2014, IRDM announced the completion of upgrades on its ground station infrastructure, which is in support of NEXT. The upgrade modernized five global ground stations, 21 antennas, and software. In 2015, SpaceX will launch the majority of NEXT's satellites into orbit, while being supplemented by the International Space Company, Kosmotras.
To help mitigate costs, NEXT will be equipped with cargo from Aireon and HRS. The payload from Harris is expected to address various customer applications with the Harris AppSTAR reconfigurable payload platform. Hosting fees charged by Iridium have the potential of costing up to $45 million.
Aireon will be discussed in greater detail shortly. NEXT is expected to be fully deployed by 2017 and is remaining within budget. Once completed, capital expenditures are expected to decrease by about $30 million annually.
Iridium AIREON
Hoping to set the standard for air traffic control monitoring, IRDM will launch the Aireon project in tandem with NEXT. Aireon will allow air traffic controllers to continuously monitor a plane's location, regardless of the flight's position in the world. Aireon's tracking capabilities will be made possible by installing ADS-B receivers onto NEXT's orbiting satellites. Signals will then be relayed from the aircraft to air traffic controllers. Continuous tracking will provide safety and cost saving advantages.
Monitoring a plane in real-time can enhance safety by allowing officials to respond to a flight in need. Take for example the tragedy of Malaysian Airlines Flight 370. If Aireon had been available and installed on the flight then perhaps safety officials would have been able to monitor the plane's whereabouts and been able to respond swiftly and accordingly.
The catalysts for cost savings will come from the ability for air traffic controllers to better monitor and establish efficient flight paths. These advantages will allow flights to:
Avoid poor weather by flying higher in the atmosphere
Fly with the jet stream in order to decrease flight time and fuel expenditures
Allow pilots to take advantage of flight paths that were once impossible due to limited radar coverage
Aireon's benefits will lead to shorter and safer flights, less fuel expenditures, and an increase in flight satisfaction. Furthermore, "green" will be increased since money and the environment will be saved.
Aireon is positioned to be a success since it has already signed long-term contracts for Aireon's data services with five air navigation service providers. Companies investing in Aireon are NAV Canada, ENAV North Atlantic, Irish Aviation Authority Limited, and Naviair Surveillance. Collectively, a total of $270 million will be invested into Aireon. Once Aireon is complete, it is expected to increase global flight monitoring capabilities from 10% to 100%.
Expected by 2018, NAV Canada will hold 51% of the fully diluted ownership of Aireon, ENAV North Atlantic will hold 12.5%, Irish Aviation Authority and Naviair Surveillance will each hold 6%, and 24.5% being retained by Iridium.
Source: Aireon's Brochure.
Iridium PRIME
Similar to NEXT, PRIME will equip a third-party's cargo onboard an IRDM satellite prior to launching into the atmosphere. Once in orbit, the cargo will allow actions such as space-weather monitoring, earth observations, and government specified missions.
The appeal of possibly saving over 50% has allowed Iridium to land three dozen potential customers. PRIME's cargo shuttling services will help leverage the significant investment in Iridium NEXT.
Note Worthy Risk Factors
High Level of Future Debt
IRDM predicts it will need an additional $1.7 billion in order to cover the total costs of the $3 billion needed to fully deploy NEXT. If IRDM fails to raise the funds necessary to upgrade its constellation they will have to take on debt or issue more equity.
Government Contract
The contract between IRDM and the government can be terminated at any time. Such actions would represent a loss of 19% from Iridium's total revenue. Also, it can be assumed that the government would only discontinue a contract if they found a more worthy partner.
Iridium's main competitors are Inmarsat (ISAT.L), Globalstar (OTCQB:GSAT), and ORBCOMM (NASDAQ:ORBC).
1. ISAT.L owns and operates a fleet of high flying, GEO satellites. Opposite of IRDM's LEO satellites, GEO satellites orbit at about 22,000 miles above the equator. Because of this high altitude, GEO operators are forced to use larger and more expensive devices that also suffer from a delay in their transmission. Due to its GEO system, Inmarsat's coverage area extends and covers most bodies of water except for a majority of the Polar Regions. This coverage over the water has allowed Inmarsat to be the leading provider of satellite communications services to the maritime sector. Inmarsat also offers land-based and aviation communications services.
2. GSAT owns and operates a fleet of LEO satellites with services that require voice and data transmissions be routed from satellites to nearby ground stations. This heavy dependence on ground structures deeply limits their coverage area over hostile terrain and the ocean.
Also, Globalstar has indicated that satellite failures and other problems with its constellation are limiting its ability to provide two-way services. GSAT completed its most recent launch campaign in February 2013 and has made arrangements to replace only 24 of its original 48 satellites.
3. ORBC also provides commercial services using a fleet of LEO satellites. Similar to Globalstar, ORBCOMM's network has limited real-time coverage area due to its dependence on a heavy presence of building infrastructure. ORBCOMM's principal focus is in direct competition with IRDM since its focus is on low-cost data and M2M services. Moreover, ORBC does not offer voice service or high-speed data services.
Suffering from a failed launch in 2012, ORBCOMM has set off on developing a second-generation satellite constellation. The upgrades began in early 2014 and will send a total of 17 satellites during the year.
While the risk factors associated with Iridium's competition and long-term debts are alive and true, I feel confident that Iridium's advantages outweigh their risks. IRDM has done a great job at securing investors and the trust of the U.S. government, and these benefits have only helped to strengthen their competitive advantage. Moving forward won't be easy, but it's important to remember that the coming projects will set a new standard in global satellite communications, air traffic control monitoring, and "out of this world" third-party cargo transportation. Iridium represents a long-term position for the patient investor who is seeking value.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050718:00
SYMBOL = HAL
The Completion and Production segment is largely responsible for the growth realized by the company, with the segment’s revenues edging up by approximately 7.8% YoY.
In the U.S. region Halliburton has been facing challenges lately related to weather conditions, increasing competition, high logistics costs, and oversupply of hydraulic fracturing equipment.
The U.S. revenues are expected to remain flattish for FY2014 owing to limited activity in GoM and Brazil.
Halliburton Co. (NYSE:HAL) is one of the leading global organizations that provide products and services to the energy sector. The company just released its earnings for the first quarter of FY2014 which led to a 3.3% rise in the stock price of the company. The stock price has risen by 24% since the start of the year.
Revenue Distribution
The revenues of the company are distributed among two reportable segments, namely Completion and Production and Drilling and Evaluation, wherein 60% of the revenues are attributable to the former segment. Geographically, North America is the major region for the company since more than half the revenues are attributable to said region. The remaining half of the revenues is distributed amongst the Middle East, Asia, Europe, Africa, and Latin America. Contribution of each region is indicated in the pie chart below according to the numbers reported in the 2013 annual report.
As per the earnings release for the first quarter of FY2014, the company has outperformed the analysts' estimates for its top and bottom lines. Total revenues of the company were $7.3 billion compared to Thomson Reuters' consensus of $7.24 billion. For the three months ended, the top line of the company grew approximately 5.40% compared to the same period last year.
Of the $7.3 billion reported revenues the net profit of the company was reported to be $622 million and per share earnings stood at $0.73beating analysts' estimates by 2 cents. Compared to the performance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 the company's EPS grew by approximately 9%. Last year, the bottom line was heavily impacted due to a litigation charge of $1 billion (pre-tax) in reference to the Deepwater Horizon incidence that occurred back in 2010 where Halliburton was one of the parties involved. Eleven people died as a consequence of the explosion in the GoM region in 2010 which caused the worst oil spill in history. This is the major reason for the reduced activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
Growth Or Lack Thereof
Analyzing the revenues by segment, it becomes apparent that the completion and production segment is largely responsible for the inherent growth realized by the company. The segment's revenue has increased by about 7.8% YoY. Although drilling and evaluation showed positive results as well, the revenue increase of 1.90% in this segment was not as significant. Again, the reduced performance of the segment is due to reduced drilling operations in Brazil and Mexico among other reasons. Geographically, the European, Middle Eastern, and African regions have shown the highest growth. Revenues from these regions increased 11% whereas the operating income across these locations grew 16%. Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Malaysia, and Indonesia also showed strong performance.
With regards to the U.S. region, the company has been facing challenges lately related to weather conditions, increasing competition, high logistics costs, and oversupply of hydraulic fracturing equipment. The rise in competition and oversupply has led to a downward pressure on prices, hurting the aggregate U.S. revenues. But since Halliburton is a long standing and large organization it has certain cost advantages compared to smaller competitors in the market. The company is taking immediate steps to haul in costs to bolster its margin performance. However, owing to limited activity in the Gulf of Mexico and Brazil, revenue from the region is expected to remain flattish for FY2014.
Further scrutiny of the earnings report indicates that the company's long term debt remained constant compared to the same quarter last year, whereas the company's cash flow from operations position improved by 173% YoY. The company maintains a better current and quick ratio compared to its peers hovering around 2.73 and 2.04 respectively, whereas the industry average for said ratios is around 1.65 and 0.68 respectively. The company also maintains higher than industry average operating and net profit margins.
In the second quarter of FY2014, Halliburton hopes its EPS increases at the rate of 25% owing to strong profit growth expected from the company's offshore operations and rebound expected in the North American operations. Halliburton's forecast meets with the general analyst consensus for the quarter. Furthermore, Halliburton distributes profits among shareholders through cash dividend payments and share repurchases. The company has repurchased shares worth $500 million in the first quarter of the year, reducing the share count by about nine million common shares. The company hopes to bring down the share count to 850 million by the end of the second quarter of 2014.
The cash payments have risen at a CAGR of 15.2% over the past three years. The fact that the company's top and bottom lines are anticipated to rise in the foreseeable future and the fact that it rewards its shareholders well means Halliburton looks like a sound investment to me.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050818:22
SYMBOL = INTC
Intel announced that it shipped 5 million tablet chips in the first quarter and is on track to reach a goal of shipping 40 million tablet chips in 2014.
If Intel meets its target of shipping 40 million tablet chips by the end of 2014, its market share would increase to approximately 15%.
LTE integration will enable Intel to make a deeper foray in the smartphone market.
While Intel (NASDAQ:INTC) has been the world's dominant PC microprocessor maker for more than two decades, it has had difficulty penetrating newer processor markets for tablets and smartphones, in which Qualcomm (NASDAQ:QCOM) and Samsung (OTC:SSNLF) are dominant. As a result Intel's growth has slowed significantly in the last two years, in line with declining PC shipments.
Intel has lowered its dependence on PCs - it derived 62% of its revenue from the PC market in Q1 2014 as compared to 65% in 2012. For a long time, Intel has had a very strong position in the server microprocessor market and its Atom microprocessors have had considerable traction in the markets for Embedded Systems. However, the company's effort to enter the handset advanced logic market with its Atom processor have failed to make a significant mark in the industry. Intel plans to increase its investment in chips for the fast-growing mobile market. It continues to focus on producing more energy efficient chips and adding features for connectivity and security to increase its share in the mobile computing space.
The Mobile & Communications segment accounts for less than 3% of Intel's overall revenue and thus does not have a significant impact on its valuation, in our view. Moreover, the company continues to earn negative operating profit from the division and we believe will continue to do so in the near future as well. Nevertheless, Intel's investment and presence in the smartphone and tablet market is important for the company to retain its relevance and dominance in computing.
Our current price of $27 for Intel is in line with the current market price. We are in the process of restructuring our model to incorporate the new reporting structure.
Rising Smartphone And Tablet Shipments
While PC shipments have declined drastically in the last few years, mobile shipments (particularly smartphones and tablets) have grown at a robust rate (see table below). Though growth rate has slowed as developed markets near saturation, mobile shipments continue to expand at a fast pace. Smartphones accounted for 55.1% of total mobile phone shipments in 2013, up from 41.7% in 2012. [1]
IDC expects total tablet shipments to reach 271 million units in 2014 and reach 386 million units by 2017, surpassing PC shipments by the end of 2015. [2] [3] Global smartphone shipments, which crossed 1 billion units in 2013, is estimated to reach 1.5 billion units by 2017.
Intel marked its thrust in the mobile market with the acquisition of Infineon's Wireless Solutions Business in 2011. This gave it a near-top ranking in the market for cellular baseband processors, even as Qualcomm and Samsung attained their dominance through Apple and Android. With considerable investment and effort Intel has built on this, and presently accounts for 4%-5% of the global tablet market. Its share in smartphones is less than 1%. [4]
Intel's mobile and communications revenue declined from $1.8 billion in 2012 to $1.4 billion in 2013. In Q1 2014, the figure stood at $156 million, 61% lower compared to Q1 2013. The main reason for the drastic decline in revenue is Intel's diminishing feature phone and 2G/3G business, as the company is in the midst of a transition to integrated LTE solutions. Additionally, the ramp up in its tablet volumes is being offset by an increase in contra revenue dollars. (Here's and interesting article explaining why Intel's contra revenue is a good long-term move for the company.)
Intel introduced a series of new products/updates at the Mobile World Congress in February 2014. Its first LTE solution, the 7160, is now available in the Samsung Galaxy Note 3 Neo and the Asus Fonepad 7, in addition to the previously announced Samsung Galaxy Tab 3. The Cat 6 LTE solution, the 7260, will start shipping this quarter. The company showcased its next-gen Atom SoC products - the Atom Z34 family of SoCs (Merrifield), the Atom Z35 line (Moorefield), as well as Cherry Trail and SoFIA. Merrifield will start shipping in smartphones in the current quarter. Moorefield will hit production in the second half of 2014, and Cherry Trail and SoFIA towards the end of the year.
The company recently announced multi-year, multi-device agreements with Lenovo, Asus, Dell and Foxconn to expand availability of out-of-base smartphones and tablets.
Offering Subsidies Will Help Intel Ship 40 million Tablet Chips In 2014
In its Q1 2014 earnings call, Intel announced that it shipped 5 million tablet chips in the first quarter and is on track to reach a goal of shipping 40 million tablet chips in 2014. In 2013, the company shipped a total of 10 million tablet chips. It has offered to heavily subsidize manufacturers' costs to include its components in future tablets, a move that impacts Intel's bottom line but could help it sell more chips. Intel is paying tablet makers to cover the additional component costs of using its Bay Trail chips instead of ARM-based processors, and is also helping its customers cover the engineering costs of designing an Intel tablet.
With contra revenue, Intel is paying tablet makers to cover the additional bill of materials (BOM) costs. However, the company believes that it will no longer have to pay the subsidies when its new products hit the market towards the end of 2014. The bill of materials cost for a Broxton tablet will be $20 less than for Bay Trail, and SoFIA, with its greater integration and smaller die size, is expected to cost even less. [5]
While Bay Trail was designed for the high end of the tablet market, Intel's new platforms target systems below $250. The low-cost tablet is what's driving growth in the global tablet market. If Intel meets its target of shipping 40 million tablet chips by the end of 2014, its market share would increase to approximately 15%.
LTE Capability To Expand Footprint In The Smartphone Market
Intel's multimode, multiband 4G LTE solution (XMM 7160) started shipping commercially in September 2013. Prior to that, the company was only shipping the single-mode 4G LTE data solution. At Mobile World Congress in February this year, Intel introduced its next-generation LTE cellular modem and Atom chipsets for mobile devices - XMM 7260. The XMM 7260 will show up in smartphones and tablets "in every major LTE market" in the current quarter.
The XMM 7260 will be sold to mobile device makers as a standalone part and the company will roll out an integrated design approach (LTE integrated with application processors) toward the end of 2014, with the launch of its SoFIA chip.
4G/LTE is the future of wireless connectivity for mobile devices, especially smartphones, and a dominance in the production of LTE chips has enabled Qualcomm to lead the smartphone market so far. Of the various technologies that are driving the market currently, LTE is seeing the strongest growth as carriers around the world increasingly shift to the new standard for wireless communication. Nvidia (NASDAQ:NVDA) estimates the LTE market to more than double by 2016. [6]
Despite stiff competition in the mobile computing space, we believe that LTE integration will enable Intel to make a deeper foray in the smartphone market.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050818:23
SYMBOL = AOL
AOL posted 8% year-over-year growth in total revenues for the quarter to $583.3 million.
Its net income declined by 64% year over year to $9.3 million due to restructuring and asset impairment charges.
As expected, much of the revenue growth for AOL came from the growth of programmatic platform across the third-party network.
AOL (NYSE:AOL) reported its Q1 2014 results on May 7. While the company posted 8% year-over-year growth in total revenues for the quarter to $583.3 million, its net income declined by 64% year over year to $9.3 million due to restructuring and asset impairment charges. Some of these charges are one time in nature and will be overlooked by most investors.
In our pre-earnings note, we had stated that we will be closely following AOL's programmatic advertising platform for revenue growth and that it will be a key growth driver for AOL going ahead. As expected, much of the revenue growth for AOL came from the growth of programmatic platform across the third-party network. Its third-party display ads division grew by 55% year over year. However, AOL witnessed a 1% decline in search and contextual advertising, a 3% decline in display ads, and a 10% decline in core subscription revenues, which partially offset the growth in third-party revenues.
Rising Costs Lowers Profitability
During the quarter, the company reported a $64 million increase in cost of revenues, primarily due to growth in traffic acquisition cost from Adapt.tv and the third-party platform. Furthermore, operating income, net income and diluted EPS were negatively impacted by a pre-tax restructuring charge of $12 million primarily related to a reduction in headcount in certain areas of the company, and a $10 million asset impairment charge resulting from the write-off of capitalized software development costs in the membership segment. As a result, the company reported a 64% year-over-year decline in net income from $25.9 million Q1 2013 to $9.3 million in Q1 2014.
Programmatic Platform Boosts Third-Party Display Ads Revenues
According to our estimates, the third-party display ads division constitutes over 35% of AOL's value. In the first quarter, revenues from third-party display ads continued to witness growth. Revenues from this division grew by 55% to $186.9 million, driven by growth in the sale of premium formats across AOL's programmatic platform, and by the inclusion of revenue from Adap.tv. Third-party network revenue grew 18% excluding Adap.tv.
AOL is aggressively developing its programmatic ads platform to sell more ads on third-party sites. During the quarter, the company also acquired Convertro, Inc., a leading provider of multi-touch attribution modeling technology for brands and agencies for approximately $101 million to further improve its programmatic platform. The company not only reported growth in the number of ads sold through the programmatic platform, but also an increase in revenue per page view. Furthermore, its DSP, SSP and Adap.tv reported triple-digit growth during the quarter.
We believe that a strong programmatic platform will be a key driver in boosting AOL's revenues by closely matching an advertiser's ads with relevant content inventory. Real-time bidding aggregates the impression slots offered across multiple ad networks and matches them (based on the advertiser's target, budget and placement requirements) with the most appropriate ads. With relevant ads displayed across content, AOL can continue to charge higher revenue per page view to advertisers. Currently, we expect revenue per page view to grow from $4.50 to $5.90 by the end of our forecast period.
Display Ads and Search Ads Division Falter
According to our estimates, the display ads division makes up 30%, and the search ads division constitutes 18% of AOL's value. While display ads division did witness a growth in the ad pricing, the number of impression sold declined in the quarter. Furthermore, revenues from search ads division declined by 1% to $97.6 million. The decline was primarily due to fewer queries from AOL clients in international markets and a decline in the number of subscribers. However, the company plans to build a sustainable video content library, and search products in partnership with Google so that its display and search revenues are stable in the future.
We are in the process of updating our AOL model. At present, we have a $41.51 price estimate for AOL, which is approximately 20% above the current market price.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050818:47
SYMBOL = DTV
DirecTV posted good numbers for the first quarter, including 6% growth in revenues.
The macroeconomic situation in Latin America will impact the company's performance in the near term. However, U.S. operations will remain stable.
The company added 361,000 video subscribers in Latin America while it added 12,000 in the U.S.
DirecTV (NASDAQ:DTV) recently reported its Q1 2014 earnings per share, which grew 14% to $1.63. The company continued to add pay-TV subscribers in Latin America (LatAm) as well as in the U.S. In LatAm, the company added 361,000 video subscribers while it added 12,000 in the U.S. [1] Pay-TV continues to gain acceptance in the LatAm region as an increasingly must-have consumer staple with the growth in the middle class segment. It turned out to be a good quarter for pay-TV operators in the U.S. Comcast (NASDAQ:CMCSA) and DirecTV added video subscribers while Time Warner Cable (NYSE:TWC) lost fewer subscribers as compared to recent past quarters (See - Comcast Adds Pay-TV Subscribers For The Second Consecutive Quarter; Q1 Results Impressive With Strong Growth Across The Segments).
Overall, DirecTV posted good set of numbers for the first quarter with 6% growth in revenues. However, the adjusted operating profits (before depreciation and amortization) declined 1% to $540 million due to a slight decline in margins. Given the currency devaluation in Venezuela, the company took a one-time charge of $281 million on its P&L. [2] We continue to believe that the macroeconomic situation in the LatAm countries will weigh over the company's performance in the near term. However, the U.S. operations will remain stable in the near term. Looking at the second quarter, the company stated the second quarter is always a seasonally low quarter for the industry, and this quarter will be no exception. However, the gross subscriber additions in Q2 are off to a good start, according to DirecTV's management. 
We currently have a $79 price estimate for DirecTV, which we will soon update based on recent quarterly earnings.
How Did The U.S. Operations Pan Out?
DirecTV's U.S. operations contribute close to 60% to its value, according to our estimates. The U.S. operations continued their steady growth in the first quarter. The revenues and operating profits grew by 5% to $6.09 billion and 11.48% to $1.24 billion, respectively. The churn rate was unchanged at 1.45% while the ARPU (average monthly rate per user) increased by 4.28% to $100.16, reflecting higher advanced receiver service fees and price increases on programming packages. [1]
While the satellite industry posted solid growth over the past few years, the growing availability of online content as an alternative video platform, along with an expanding market for connected devices, poses a competitive challenge to the entire pay-TV industry in the U.S. It is noteworthy that DirecTV has been able to add subscribers in such an environment. This can be attributed to the company's exclusive programming of NFL Sunday Ticket, its superior customer service and the ongoing migration of subscribers from cable to satellite. We believe DirecTV's U.S. operations will remain stable in the near term. However, a lot will depend on the renewal of its exclusive programming of NFL Sunday Ticket, which will expire by the end of the 2014 season.
How Did Latin America Operations Pan Out?
The LatAm operations contribute around 25% to DirecTV's value, according to our estimates. The segment revenues for the first quarter remained at $1.72 billion while the adjusted operating profits declined by 10% to $255 million. [1] The pay-TV revenues are driven by two factors, i.e., the number of subscribers and ARPU. While the company managed to add more subscribers during the quarter, currency fluctuation weighed over the ARPU growth. DirecTV saw growth in local currency ARPU but that was offset by foreign exchange headwinds. This led to a 10% decline in ARPU in terms of U.S. dollars. While we believe that macroeconomic volatility will continue to weigh over the company's performance in the near term, in the long run, DirecTV will benefit from rising pay-TV demand in the LatAm region due to its middle-market focused programming packages and the popularity of its prepaid products. Moreover, despite rapid growth in the pay-TV market, the industry largely remains under-penetrated and offers enough room for growth.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050820:06
SYMBOL = JCP
2013 had many similarities to 2010 in terms of sales patterns. Quarter-to-quarter change in sales has been nearly identical to 2010.
If this pattern continues, J.C. Penney is likely to do +2% to +3% comparable store sales in Q1 2014.
J.C. Penney needs to demonstrate that it can escape this pattern, as 2011 ended up relatively weak, and J.C. Penney cannot afford a similar level of sales growth this time.
Although there have been assertions about J.C. Penney (NYSE:JCP) being another Best Buy (NYSE:BBY) or Rite Aid (NYSE:RAD), one of the more interesting comparisons is actually J.C. Penney in 2010 and 2011. The causes and magnitudes of the declines leading up to that period are different. However, the sales patterns, guidance and explanations for monthly sales variances during those times are strikingly similar. The question now is whether J.C. Penney can escape history repeating itself, or whether it will continue to be stuck in a repeat of the patterns from three years ago - patterns that have held true over the past year.
Similarities Between Now And 2010/2011
In 2010, J.C. Penney had stabilized its business after some significant declines due to the macro environment. In Q1 2010, J.C. Penney recorded its first quarterly same store sales increase after 10 consecutive quarters of negative comps. In 2013, J.C Penney stabilized its business after significant declines mostly under Ron Johnson. In Q4 2013, J.C. Penney recorded its first quarterly same store sales increase after 9 consecutive quarters of negative comps.
Q4 2010 was characterized by a strong November, followed by a slower December and an even weaker January. January's performance was partially attributed to weather. Q4 2013 had a strong November, followed by a weaker December and an even weaker January. Performance in December 2013 and January 2014 was attributed to weather. Below is a table with comparable store sales in Q4 2010 and Q4 2013.
February 2011's performance was strong at +6.4%. In the Q4 2010 earnings report in late February, J.C. Penney gave guidance for Q1 2011 comps of +3% to +5% and full-year guidance of low-to-mid single-digit comps. While we do not know February 2014's performance, it was solid enough for J.C. Penney to offer guidance for Q1 2014 comps of +3% to +5% and full-year guidance of mid single-digit comps during its Q4 2013 earnings report.
One of the strongest similarities between 2010 and 2013 is how sales evolved from quarter to quarter. Below is a table of revenue from 2010 and early 2011 with catalog revenue removed, as J.C. Penney was in the process of closing that channel down. The change vs. previous quarter row shows how sales changed in Q2 FY2010 vs. Q1 FY2010 for example.
Now here is a similar table from 2013. The change from quarter to quarter is remarkably similar. Growth from quarter to quarter was slightly weaker in 2013, but had an average difference of only 0.5% per quarter. This information would also seem to indicate that the reopening of the home departments in mid 2013 had no noticeable impact in improving sales by the end of 2013.
February 2011's strong numbers combined with weaker numbers for March 2011 and strong numbers for April 2011. Much of that effect was attributed to Easter being much later in April in 2011 than in 2010. Part of Easter weekend fell within the March reporting period in 2010, thus 2011 had a tougher March comparison and an easier April comparison. A later Easter is seen as beneficial overall for sales. J.C. Penney ended up with +3.8% comps in Q1 2011, near the midpoint of its guidance. However, it failed to continue its momentum after initially recouping a small portion of the lost sales from the recession. Sales growth slowed (eventually ending with +0.2% comps for the whole year), and Ullman was soon replaced by Ron Johnson.
In 2014, Easter fell much later in April as well, while Easter affected the March reporting period in 2013. Thus we are likely to see a similar monthly pattern here (weaker March, stronger April) as well as some benefit from a later April Easter.
If we apply a similar -29.7% modifier to Q4 2013 sales to get to Q1 2014 numbers, we end up with sales of $2.659 billion, which represents about a 1.2% increase in comparable store sales. If we give J.C. Penney some credit for weather impact in Q4 2013 which would have artificially decreased the sales numbers for that quarter, then the projected sales total based on patterns would be $2.68 billion, or a 2% increase in comparable store sales. Another potential factor is the clearance sales to get rid of inventory at the 33 closing stores, which would have a negative impact on gross margin, but a positive impact on sales. I'm thinking that +2 to +3% comparable store sales is probably a reasonable estimate using this method.
J.C. Penney has been stuck following 2010 sales patterns since the beginning of 2013. A lot of people expected J.C. Penney to make a strong breakout from those patterns in Q4 2013, but that didn't occur. J.C. Penney has another chance to show that it can make a significant move out of that sales range in Q1 2014. However, if it posts comparable store sales at the low end of its guidance range, then there is a high likelihood that history is repeating itself again, threatening J.C. Penney's ability to make full-year guidance similar to 2011.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050820:51
SYMBOL = TM
Toyota has the 14th best brand name in the world, the second ranked brand among auto makers, and very low default probabilities.
Toyota, however, has been downgraded 3 times in recent years and has 4 times the 10 year cumulative default risk of Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.B).
Unlike Berkshire Hathaway, whose bonds are both safe and offer good value, Toyota bonds ranked 298th among 400 bonds on May 7 by the credit spread to default ratio.
Toyota Motor Corporation (NYSE:TM) (7203) ranks 14th on the Forbes list of the world's best brands, ranking second among automakers after BMW (OTCPK:BAMXY). The bond market has generally paid more for brand name bond issues than pure financial analysis and relative value analysis would indicate. With this history in mind, today's study incorporates 64 May 7 bond trades on 16 U.S. dollar bonds issued by Toyota Motor Credit Corporation with trading volume of $48.6 million. Toyota Motor Credit Corporation bonds are covered by a hierarchy of support agreements, not an unconditional guarantee, ultimately backed by parent Toyota Motor Corporation. We use this bond price data to analyze the potential risk and return to bondholders and common shareholders of Toyota Motor Corporation.
Conclusion: Toyota Motor Corporation, a former AAA-rated firm, has been downgraded three times in recent years. We believe that a very strong majority of sophisticated analysts would continue to rank Toyota Motor Corporation as investment grade by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act definition. How do Toyota Motor Credit Corporation bonds rank among all other bonds by the ratio of credit spread to default probability? 297 other bond issues among 400 that traded heavily on May 7 offered a better credit spread to default probability ratio than the best of the bonds issued by Toyota Motor Credit Corporation. Like many other iconic names, if you want to buy a Toyota, you have to pay more -- in the bond market, at least.
Analytical Objectives
Our first objective is answer whether or not Toyota Motor Corporation would be considered "investment grade" in light of the changed definition of investment grade mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act and recently implemented by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. For background on Dodd-Frank and related regulatory changes, see our December 6 analysis of Citigroup Inc. (NYSE:C).
In this note, we analyze the current levels and past history of default probabilities for Toyota Motor Corporation. We also measure the reward, in terms of credit spread, for taking on the default risk of Toyota Motor Credit Corporation bonds.
Assuming the recovery rate in the event of default would be the same on all bond issues of the same seniority for the same issuer, a sophisticated investor who has moved beyond legacy ratings seeks to maximize revenue per basis point of default risk from each incremental investment, subject to risk limits on macro-factor exposure on a fully default-adjusted basis. We analyze the maturities where the credit spread to default probability ratio is highest for Toyota Motor Corporation and Toyota Motor Credit Corporation.
Term Structure of Default Probabilities
Maximizing the ratio of credit spread to matched-maturity default probabilities requires that default probabilities be available at a wide range of maturities. The graph below shows the current default probabilities for Toyota Motor Corporation ranging from one month to 10 years on an annualized basis. The default probabilities range from 0.01% at one month to 0.01% at 1 year and 0.16% at ten years. In today's analysis, we make the optimistic assumption that the default risk of Toyota Motor Credit Corporation bonds is identical to that of Toyota Motor Corporation, the parent. This assumption is not true, particularly since there is no unconditional guarantee of the bond issues of Toyota Motor Credit Corporation. We use this assumption as a first approximation and caution readers that this assumption will lead us to analysis that overstates the attractiveness of the bonds of Toyota Motor Credit Corporation.
(click to enlarge)
We explain the source and methodology for the default probabilities in each Instablog posted by Kamakura Corporation on Seeking Alpha.
Summary of Recent Bond Trading Activity
The National Association of Securities Dealers launched the TRACE (Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine) in July 2002 in order to increase price transparency in the U.S. corporate debt market. The system captures information on secondary market transactions in publicly traded securities (investment grade, high yield and convertible corporate debt) representing all over-the-counter market activity in these bonds. We used the bond data mentioned above for the 16 Toyota Motor Credit Corporation fixed rate non-call issues in this analysis.
The graph below shows 6 different yield curves that are relevant to a risk and return analysis of Toyota Motor Credit Corporation bonds. These curves reflect the noise in the TRACE data, as some of the trades are small odd-lot trades. The lowest curve, in dark blue, is the yield to maturity on U.S. Treasury bonds, interpolated from the Federal Reserve H15 statistical release for that day, which matches the maturity of the traded bonds of Toyota Motor Credit Corporation the second lowest curve, in the lighter blue, shows the yields that would prevail if investors shared the default probability views outlined above, assumed that recovery in the event of default would be zero, and demanded no liquidity premium above and beyond the default-adjusted risk-free yield. The third curve from the bottom (the orange dots) graphs the lowest yield reported by TRACE on that day on Toyota Motor Credit Corporation bonds. The fourth line from the bottom (the green dots) displays the average yield reported by TRACE on the same day. The highest yield (the red dots) is obviously the maximum yield in each Toyota Motor Credit Corporation issue recorded by TRACE. For the reader's convenience, we have added a trade volume-weighted credit spread, fitted to the average traded credit spread at each maturity. This curve is shown as black dots joined by black line segments.
The data makes it clear that there is a liquidity premium built into the yields of Toyota Motor Credit Corporation above and beyond the "default-adjusted risk free curve" (the risk-free yield curve plus the matched maturity default probabilities for the firm). The credit spreads generally widen with maturity, the normal pattern for a high quality credit.
(click to enlarge)
The high, low and average credit spreads at each maturity are graphed below. Credit spreads are gradually increasing with the maturity of the bonds.
(click to enlarge)
The zero coupon credit spreads and zero coupon bond yields for Toyota Motor Credit Corporation are shown in this graph versus zero coupon U.S. Treasury yields:
Using default probabilities in addition to credit spreads, we can analyze the number of basis points of credit spread per basis point of default risk at each maturity. This ratio of spread to default probability is shown in the following table for Toyota Motor Credit Corporation. At almost all maturities under 1.2 years, the reward from holding the bonds of Toyota Motor Credit Corporation, relative to the matched maturity default probability, is 13 to 28 basis points of credit spread reward for every basis point of default risk. The ratio of spread to default probability decreases with maturity after that, falling to a credit spread to default ratio between 2.3 and 4.4 times. These ratios are very low, and yet they are typical for a major "brand name" issuer like Toyota.
(click to enlarge)
The credit spread to default probability ratios are shown in graphic form here. We have again added a traded-weighted polynomial (shown in black) relating the fitted credit spread-default probability ratio to the years to maturity on the underlying bonds.
(click to enlarge)
Relative Value Analysis
Is the reward-to-risk ratio for Toyota Motor Corporation higher than average, lower than average, or just average? Rather than guess, we simply look at the facts. The chart below shows the credit spreads for all fixed rate senior non-call debt issues that traded at least $5 million in volume on May 7, 2014 and had at least 1 year to maturity. There were exactly 400 bond issues that met our criteria. The median credit spread was 0.911% and the average credit spread was 1.120%. This histogram shows the distribution of credit spreads available in the market place.
(click to enlarge)
The next graph shows the distribution of the credit spread to default probability ratios for all 400 issues. The median ratio was 7.737 and the average ratio was 10.850.
(click to enlarge)
How did Toyota Motor Credit Corporation rank on May 7, 2014? There were 297 bond issues that offered a better credit spread to default ratio than the best ranked Toyota Motor Credit Corporation bond. The two Toyota Motor Credit Corporation bonds that traded at least $5 million were ranked between 298 and 308 on the "best value" rankings of these 400 bond issues. Clearly, investors are paying a premium for the Toyota brand.
(click to enlarge)
CUSIPs
Many investors have requested that we provide CUSIPs as part of this chart. Redistribution of CUSIPs is currently prohibited by Kamakura Corporation's contract with the data vendor. We are working hard to change this so that we may make CUSIPs available in the future. In the meantime, CUSIPs for major issuers can be found easily with an internet such on web pages like this one from the New York Stock Exchange.
Credit Default Swap Analysis
The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation reports weekly on new credit default swap trading volume by reference name. For the week ended May 2, 2014 (the most recent week for which data is available), the credit default swap trading volume on Toyota Motor Corporation was 2 trades with $9 million of notional principal, a small fraction of the bond trading volume. The weekly history of notional principal traded on Toyota Motor Corporation in the credit default swap market is shown here:
(click to enlarge)
The next graph shows the number of credit default swaps traded on Toyota Motor Corporation over the same time period.
(click to enlarge)
Additional Analysis
On a cumulative basis, the current default probabilities for Toyota Motor Corporation range from 0.01% at 1 year to 1.58% at 10 years, as shown in the following graph. The 10 year cumulative default probability for Toyota Motor Corporation is 4 times higher than we found in our recent analysis on the bonds issued by an affiliate of Berkshire Hathaway (NYSE:BRK.B).
Over the last decade, the 1 year and 5 year default probabilities for Toyota Motor Corporation have varied as shown in the following graph. The one year default probability peaked at just under 1.70% in the first half of 2009 during the worst part of the Toyota recall incident. The 5 year default probability (annualized) peaked at just over 0.70%.
The macro-economic factors driving the historical movements in the default probabilities of Toyota Motor Corporation have been derived using historical data beginning in January 1990. A key assumption of such analysis, like any econometric time series study, is that the business risks of the firm being studied are relatively unchanged during this period. With that caveat, the historical analysis shows that Toyota Motor Corporation default risk responds to changes in 8 factors among the 28 factors listed by the Federal Reserve in its 2014 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. These macro factors explain 77.9% of the variation in the default probability of Toyota Motor Corporation. The remainder of the risk is the idiosyncratic default risk of Toyota Motor Corporation.
Toyota Motor Corporation can be compared with its peers in the same industry sector, as defined by Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) and reported by Compustat. For the world-wide "autos and components" sector, Toyota Motor Corporation has the following percentile ranking for its default probabilities among its 733 peers at these maturities:
The percentile ranking for Toyota Motor Corporation at 5 and 10 years is in the safest 5 percentiles of credit risk among auto-related firms. Shorter-term percentile rankings, however, are higher simply because current world-wide corporate credit conditions are at the 99th percentile and short-term default risk for many firms is very low.
The legacy credit ratings, those reported by credit rating agencies like McGraw-Hill (NYSE:MHFI) unit Standard & Poor's and Moody's (NYSE:MCO), for Toyota Motor Corporation have changed three times during the decade. A comparison of the legacy credit rating for Toyota Motor Corporation with predicted ratings indicates that the statistically predicted rating is three notches below the actual legacy credit rating. Both the actual and predicted ratings are "investment grade" by traditional credit rating standards of Moody's Investors Service and the Standard & Poor's affiliate of McGraw-Hill.
Before reaching any conclusions about investment grade status, it is useful to look at some additional market views of Toyota Motor Corporation and its peers. The following graph compares the traded credit spreads on Toyota Motor Credit Corporation with the traded credit spreads on the "autos and auto parts sector" peer group on May 7, 2014:
The credit spreads for Toyota Motor Credit Corporation were at the very bottom, the safest, of the sector peer group. We now look at the matched-maturity default probabilities for Toyota Motor Corporation versus that same peer group. Toyota Motor Corporation default probabilities are also on the safest end of the peer group.
We now compare the traded credit spreads for Toyota Motor Credit Corporation with the traded spreads for every firm with a legacy credit rating in the old-style "investment grade" range. Again, Toyota Motor Credit Corporation spreads are among the safest of the investment grade peer group.
By the matched-maturity default probability criterion, comparing to investment grade firms with bond trades on May 7, Toyota Motor Corporation's default probabilities are well below the average levels for the investment grade peer group.
While the default probabilities of Toyota Motor Corporation are very low compared to their peak in the credit crisis, the ten year cumulative default risk of the firm is four times higher than another iconic firm, Berkshire Hathaway. Toyota Motor Corporation, a former AAA-rated firm, has been downgraded three times in recent years. We believe that a very strong majority of sophisticated analysts would continue to rank Toyota Motor Corporation as investment grade by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act definition. Regular readers of these notes know that low default probabilities, per se, are not enough to make the bonds of a given issuer "good value." How do Toyota Motor Credit Corporation bonds rank among all other bonds by the ratio of credit spread to default probability? 297 other bond issues among 400 that traded heavily on May 7 offered a better credit spread to default probability ratio than the best of the bonds issued by Toyota Motor Credit Corporation. Like many other iconic names, if you want to buy a Toyota, you have to pay more -- in the bond market, at least.
Regular readers of these notes are aware that we generally do not list the major news headlines relevant to the firm in question. We believe that other authors on Seeking Alpha, Yahoo, at The New York Times, The Financial Times, and The Wall Street Journal do a fine job of this. Our omission of those headlines is intentional. Similarly, to argue that a specific news event is more important than all other news events in the outlook for the firm is something we again believe is inappropriate for this author. Our focus is on current bond prices, credit spreads, and default probabilities, key statistics that we feel are critical for both fixed income and equity investors.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050822:44
SYMBOL = AAPL
Apple reported strong Q2 sales in China.
Chinese officials report that the smartphone market contracted 24.7% in the March quarter.
Kantar World Panel reported that Apple lost a major chunk of its market share in China in the March quarter.
The numbers don't add up, and the explanation is not pretty for Apple.
IDC reported that Q1 smartphone sales globally rose 29% to 281 million units and that 40% of those sold were shipped to Chinese consumers, or about 112 million units in China. Trendforce put global Q1 sales at 267 million units.
SA Author Doug Young posted a blog recently reporting that smartphone sales in China fell in the first quarter of 2014 to about 100 million units. China Market Watch confirmed that number, sourced from the China's Ministry of Industrial and Information Technology ("MIIT"), and down 24.7% from the prior year.
The Q1 smartphone mystery
The data don't add up. It cannot be that a record 40% of a record 281 million smartphones sold in Q1 worldwide were purchased by Chinese customers while sales in China declined almost 25% year over year.
Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) reported a record quarter with 43.7 million iPhones sold. Apple's geographic mix of iPhone sales is not segregated from other revenues in its regional breakdown, but Apple did report higher revenues from Greater China of $9.3 billion in the March 2014 quarter, up 13% from 8.2 billion in the similar period in 2013.
At the same time, Kantar Worldpanel reports that Apple lost market share in China in the March 31, 2014 quarter.
How did Apple achieve 13% higher revenues with a drop in market share from 23.3% to 17.9% in a market that itself declined 24.7%?
The answer to that question may explain a lot. It may explain how Apple achieved record revenues for a March quarter, record iPhone units for a March quarter, and record profits for a March quarter.
Apple CEO Tim Cook told analysts at the Q2 conference call that Apple gained share in China, as quoted below:
Source: Apple Q2 Conference Call transcript
CFO Luca Maestri followed up on Cook's remarks about China and stated:
There is a pretty obvious disconnect between Cook's and Maestri's remarks and the Kantar data. Either Apple gained share as Cook asserts, or it lost over 20% of its market share as Kantar reports. The data should find it hard to co-exist. It is indeed a mystery.
The data points should not co-exist, but they do. And they co-exist for the following reasons:
Apple restarted production of its iPhone 4S and shipped what I estimate to be 4 million of them to carriers in the quarter at a price of $349;
Apple cleared iPhone 5C and iPhone 5 inventory from carriers at an ASP of about $500; and,
Apple restocked carriers with iPhone 5S, particularly in China with an ASP of about $649, likely even higher in China.
So what? The answer is interesting, but not pretty.
Apple recognizes revenues when the devices are shipped to carriers. During the quarter, carrier inventory only rose by 100,000 units, so the units recognized are not an increase in unit inventory by any material amount. Nonetheless, I believe that Apple recognized a major increase in the carrier inventory in China as revenue in the quarter (as it should in accordance with its revenue recognition policies) even though those units were not sold to end users. The growth in inventory in China was offset by reduced inventory elsewhere.
And while a mountain of iPhone 5S devices recognized as revenues in the quarter were not sold to end users, what was sold to end users was a few million iPhone 4S' in India, Brazil and Indonesia and a pile of end-of-line iPhone 5s and iPhone 5Cs as these were cleared out.
The average selling price of iPhones fell about $40 in the quarter, but margins rose on higher volume. If the higher volume was lower priced iPhone 4S, iPhone 5 and iPhone 5C units, the numbers don't seem to make sense at first glance.
But they do, and that is the story. They make sense because the inventory profits on iPhone 5S units shipped to carriers in China were more than enough to offset lower actual profits on the lower priced devices moved elsewhere.
Here is an example of how that works. At December 31, 2013, Apple could barely meet demand for the iPhone 4S, so very few devices were in carrier inventory, which was clogged with iPhone 5Cs that Apple was having some trouble moving; iPhone 5s still on hand; and some iPhone 4S devices that needed to be moved.
Apple moved the lower priced devices by discounting them in peripheral markets. It then shipped a roughly equivalent number of its newer iPhone 5S and iPhone 5C units to China carriers, primarily China Mobile (NYSE:CHL).
I estimate the inventory in the hands of carriers at December 31, 2013 and March 31, 2014 looked like this:
Summarizing the quarter, I estimate Apple shipped 43.7 million iPhones to its stores and carriers comprising iPhone 5S, 5C and 4S models. Users actually purchased 43.6 million units from Apple's stores and carriers. About ten million of the sales to users were iPhone 5 and iPhone 4S models, while sales of newer models to end users were about 33 million. Since the older models already in carrier inventory were recognized in sales in earlier quarters, Apple's accounting recognized somewhere around 39 million of the two new models in sales in the March quarter, of which 13 million remained in inventory in the system, more or less.
The third party industry followers do not have any data on Apple's inventory and report their estimates of what customers actually purchased. An added 10 million units in inventory of Chinese carriers on a base of 100 million units can go a long way to explain the differences between the market estimates by IDC; Trendforce; and, the report from the Chinese MIIT.
None of this is a criticism of Apple in any way. That is how its revenue recognition has always worked and this quarter was no exception. Apple was clear in its disclosure that it had recognized 43.7 million units in revenue in the quarter and that 0.1 million of those represented increased carrier inventory.
So what is my beef?
If you convert the devices in carrier inventory into sales dollars recognized using an approximation of the revenue to Apple for each model, you get a table like the one below. Because the iPhone 5S is higher priced than the iPhone 5C, 5, 4S and earlier models, the revenue recognized but still in carrier inventory rises by about $1.5 billion even though the number of iPhones in inventory barely changed.
The numbers cannot be too far off. I used an ASP of $650 for the iPhone 5S, $500 for the iPhone 5C and 5 versions, and $350 for the iPhone 4S. With those ASPs, the revenue recognized approximates the $26.1 billion iPhone revenue Apple reported for the period.
The result is that while Apple may have only recognized 100,000 more devices in carriers' hands as "revenues" in the quarter, recognition of the higher priced models in carrier inventory displacing the lower priced models removed from inventory added about $1.5 billion to revenues. Since the bill of materials for the differing models of iPhone are all in the $225 range more or less, the $1.5 billion of additional revenues contributed a similar amount of added margin. Without that "inventory profit" being recognized, Apple would have had a year-over-year sales increase of $800 million instead of $2 billion, and year-over-year profits would have declined.
There is nothing wrong with Apple's accounting, it is simply following its policies. But for Apple's CEO and CFO to stand and crow about Apple's China sales and share growing is at a minimum misleading. Market share only grows when actual users buy iPhones.
The Kantar World Panel and data from the Chinese ministry of communications posted by Doug Young tell the tale. The IDC data seem to be estimates that simply include Apple's reported sales and reflect its officers' public statements rather than any bottom up analysis of the actual China market.
The important facts for investors are threefold:
The China market is shrinking, not growing, and double digit declines are major ones;
Apple appears to be losing share in China; and,
Selling iPhone 4S units in emerging markets and suggesting to investors that the sales growth came from robust demand in China is in its essence a misrepresentation of what is actually taking place.
The coincidence of Apple's officers (at least arguably) gilding the lily at the same time as announcing major capital initiatives and a stock split can be seen as acts of desperation as much as acts of confidence. If Tim Cook had stood up and said: "Contrary to what we expected, the market in China fell sharply in the March quarter and Apple lost 5 percentage points of market share," I am confident the market reaction would have been less enthusiastic and the stock somewhat less likely to run up ten or fifteen percent.
But he did not. Instead, he and his CFO took pains to tell the world just how well Apple was doing in China without taking the time to tell those interested that by doing well, he meant stuffing the channel inventory with high priced product that he hoped would move in later periods, if that is in fact what is happening. The data suggest it is.
I don't know what the whole story is. All I know is the numbers we get from the company and what the industry observers report. But the data do not add up and investors deserve an explanation.
I am short the stock.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050823:44
SYMBOL = VLO
Valero Energy Corporation’s impressive Q1 FY 2014 results made analysts at Cowen and Company and Barclays raise their price targets on the stock.
This growth in the company’s bottom line was supported by higher refining throughput margins and volumes receiving support from the cheap U.S. shale oil supply due to improvements in infrastructure.
Looking forward, further growth in the North American crude production is expected that will support the company and help it to increase its production as oil infrastructure improves.
The company is also investing to improve its transportation facilities and refineries to process more crude oil, while Latin America presents an attractive market to supply refined oil products.
Valero is also expanding its ethanol operations, which will support the company’s sustainability even if favorable circumstances in the wider refining industry start to fade.
Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE:VLO) serves as a manufacturer of transportation fuels, other petrochemical products and power. The company has recently reported its Q1 FY 2014 results that made several analysts increase their price targets on the company's shares and upgrade its ratings. Cowen and Company and Barclays (NYSE:BCS) increased their price targets on shares of Valero Energy from $60 to $70 and $70 to $75, respectively. The stock is currently trading at around $57.71, so these price targets indicate handsome upside potential for the company's investors to gain from.
Beginning with a discussion on the company's performance in the recently reported quarter, in this article I will determine its future outlook with respect to the factors that will support its performance and position in the coming years.
Valero Energy concluded its Q1 FY 2014 on a strong note. The company's total revenue increased 0.6% year-over-year in Q1 FY 2014 to $33.66 billion from $33.47 billion and also above Thomson Reuters' estimate of $32.95 billion.
The company reported a net income of $828 million (up 27% in comparison to Q1 FY 2013), or $1.54 per share, also beating analysts' estimates of $1.38 per share. This growth in the company's bottom line was supported by higher refining throughput margins and volumes in each of the company's regions, with the exception of the U.S. Mid-Continent (see table below). The company's margins increased due to cheaper crude oil as new pipelines bring in cheap inland U.S. shale oil, resulting in more crude oil flowing to the Gulf of Mexico. Additionally, other grades of crude like Mexico's Mayan also traded at strong discounts.
Additionally, the company's ethanol segment realized a record operating income in Q1 FY 2014. The company's ethanol production generated an operating income of $243 million in Q1 FY 2014 compared to $14 million in Q1 FY 2013 (see table below).
During 2013, a surplus of oil was accumulated at the storage hub in Cushing, Oklahoma due to a lack of infrastructure in the form of open pipeline space to transport oil to refineries in Texas and Louisiana. As a result, the Gulf Coast refiners were stuck importing more expensive crude from abroad or paying higher transportation costs to carry and transfer U.S. oil on rail tankers from places like North Dakota. However, the situation has improved in the current year as new pipelines are transporting oil from Cushing tanks, and now that supply is piling up at the Gulf. Therefore, the gush of cheap crude has forced down the price that Valero and other refiners pay to get oil that they refine into gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. These market conditions are expected to prevail in Q2 FY 2014 and are likely to lift up the earnings of the Gulf Coast refiners such as Valero as more crude will be available for them to process.
The Situation is Likely to Prevail Further with Valero Outfitting itself for Success
Thanks to developments in the U.S. shale oil, there has been a remarkable turnaround in the trend for domestic crude and gas production (see graph below) resulting in lower costs for the U.S. refiners and more supply of crude oil as infrastructure in the region improves. The North American crude production forecasts, as shown in the following table, project tight-oil production to reach more than 4 million b/d in 2015 and further increase to more than 8 million b/d by 2020. Along with other factors, this rise in the North American crude production has altered the U.S. crude supply landscape, allowing refiners to significantly reduce reliance on imported crude oils.
While the current and forecast rise in domestic crude oil supply in North America will continue benefiting the U.S. refiners in terms of production, Latin America will present a great market for refined products from the U.S. The rapidly growing demand, altering regulations, and a tough and expensive project environment in Latin America will offer a passage for increased production from U.S. refineries also favoring better days ahead for U.S. refining.
Valero is also growing its oil carriage by rail transportation network. The company's rail-unloading facility in Port Arthur, Texas is anticipated to be completed in Q4 FY 2014. This will increase Valero's access to cheap North American crude oil. At the company's plant in Quebec City, 45% of the crude it processes is now cheaper North American oil, a proportion that is projected to rise to 100% by the end of FY 2014 after a pipeline setback.
The flourishing domestic U.S. crude output is mainly light sweet that can require refiners to cut rates if plants are not reconfigured to process more than they have processed conventionally. Valero is constructing distinctive "crude topper" units at its Houston, Corpus Christi and Three Rivers refineries to escalate light sweet crude processing capabilities. Lacking such adjustments, heavy amounts of light sweet crude coming in can encounter restraints like distillation units incapable to handle more vapors or hydraulic capacity restrictions. Other refiners alongside the U.S. Gulf Coast, such as Flint Hills Resources and Delek U.S. Holdings (NYSE:DK) with plants structured to process heavier crudes, similar to those produced in Canada or Venezuela, are initiating adjustments to make their plants capable of processing light-sweet crude.
Valero is also expecting to gain from the rise in fuel demand as the U.S. economy will recover and with the summer season ahead, the company's Chairman Bill Klesse is looking at positive U.S. gasoline demand and margins.
The Promising Future of Ethanol and Concluding Remarks
The company's ethanol operating income increased to $243 million from $14 million in Q1 FY 2014, receiving support from weather-related supply disruptions, lower industry ethanol inventories, import volumes and corn costs in comparison same quarter previous year. Valero has recently acquired its 11th corn ethanol plant in March 2014, reflecting the fact that the company is aiming to capitalize more prospects from its ethanol operations. The recently acquired ethanol plant has a 110 million gallon capacity and was located in Indiana in March. The company has plans to put the facility back in operation by the end of FY 2014. Expanding in ethanol could provide Valero with a competitive edge over HollyFrontier Corp. (NYSE:HFC) and Phillips 66 (PSX), as this will enable the company to sustain even if favorable circumstances in the wider refining industry start to fade.
The improvement in oil and gas infrastructure in North America has enabled U.S. refiners to take advantage of the cheaper U.S. shale oil that has impacted Valero's bottom line favorably in the recently reported quarter. The company is also aiming to enhance its carriage and refinery facilities to grow its production further as North American crude production is forecasted to grow. Latin America presents an attractive market to absorb the growing production by U.S. refiners at the Gulf Coast. Additionally, the company has also invested to expand its ethanol operations to provide it a competitive edge. Combined, all of these factors indicate the bright future of the company, therefore, I give it a buy rating.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050808:39
SYMBOL = RTN
Shareholders of RTN can expect a CAGR of about 13%.
RTN has paid uninterrupted dividends since 1958.
Low volatility, with a beta of 0.73.
Upgraded to a Dividend Contender.
I'm going to give a brief summary on this international aerospace and defense company from a dividend growth perspective -- looking at the major issues investors look for when screening for stocks and giving a conclusion on whether it is a company worth having in our portfolio.
Raytheon (NYSE:RTN) is a major American defense contractor and industrial corporation, with manufacturing concentrated in weapons and military and commercial electronics. It's currently the world's largest producer of guided missiles, and currently 4th in the world for arms sales. Raytheon's rivals are none other than Lockheed Martin (NYSE:LMT), Boeing (NYSE:BA) and BAE Systems (OTCPK:BAESF).
Raytheon focuses on four businesses to craft solutions for both government and commercial partners. These are as follows:
Integrated Defense Systems
Intelligence, Information and Services
Missile Systems
Space and Airborne Systems
Recent Events
Raytheon recently announced its Q1 results on April 24th, 2014. These were mainly in line with expectations from senior management. Net sales were down -6%, from $5,879m to $5,508m. Adjusted operating margins though down ever slightly, remain consistent at 12.7%, down from 13.2%. EPS growth is looking great compared to the same quarter last year, $1.49 to $1.87 is an increase of 25.50%. All of these statistics were provided in the Quarterly Report.
CEO Thomas A. Kennedy announced 2 key international bookings for the quarter. It is going to provide Kuwait with 2 further Patriot fire units for $515 million. Kuwait already has 5 fire units existing, which shows continued demand for the air and missile defense system. The other booking was $195 million for an international cyber program for an undisclosed source.
Quarterly dividends have been raised to $0.61 from $0.55, for a 10.91% increase, along with $200 million worth of stock being repurchased. This makes Raytheon a "dividend contender" at 10 straight years of dividend increases, an upgrade from the "challenger" title used in David Fish's spreadsheet found here.
Dividends
As previously mentioned, distributions from the company have been uninterrupted since 1958, giving great value to shareholders. The dividend yield of 2.52% is average, but what is impressive is the growth rate, currently at 15.40% over the past 5 years. This will give a yield on cost of 4.71% over that same 5-year period going forward, if the growth can be maintained. With an EPS of $6.56 and a DPS of $2.26 for 2014, we have a low payout ratio of 34.45%. This is music to the ears of dividend growth investors, as it will ensure the dividend increases going forward (anything below 60% is great, in my opinion!)
Analysts over at Yahoo Finance have given an average EPS target of $6.93 for FY 2014, not only decreasing the payout ratio, but this will be a growth rate of 12.5% if hit by Raytheon.
At an average price of $100 per share, we can guess that 2 million shares are going to be repurchased each quarter out of the 312 million shares currently outstanding. This accounts for just over 2.5% for the year. If we take this percentage on top of a dividend yield of 2.5% and an estimated growth rate of 8% (I consider this to be quite conservative, based on what I've provided), this stock should easily be able to give a compound annual growth rate of 13% on your initial investment.
There are 3 metrics I focus on the most as a value dividend growth investor, and these are the P/E ratio, P/B ratio and the P/CF ratio influence by Benjamin Graham. The P/E ratio is currently at 15.18, with a forward P/E of 14. Any mega cap defensive stock below a P/E of 20 I consider to be attractively valued. For the P/B ratio, we have a figure of 2.63; I usually look for less than 1.5, so this is coming at somewhat of a premium. Last but not least, P/CF is currently at 11.7, which is also attractively valued.
Margins
I compiled the 4 margins on average over a 5-year period, and entered them onto a spreadsheet to generate a bar chart.
Raytheon's average net profit of 7.77% is better than its 3 rivals, which is a great sign in this fiercely competitive industry. Raytheon is able to generate cash flow efficiently, further demonstrating the skills of the management team and how they are handling operations.
I won't push technicals too much, but at the moment, we have a current price of $96.73 after a drop from $102.33 2 weeks ago. This represent a discount of 5.47% from the 52-week high.
Based on the 20- and 50-day simple moving average, the price has consolidated, giving a buying opportunity, as it is comfortably 12.48% above the 200-day, signaling a strong up-trend in momentum.
The major support I'm seeing at $88 is based on volume giving a strong demand area, however, I don't see Raytheon reaching that price without a stock market correction pushing everything lower.
Though I haven't gone into drastic detail over the company, Raytheon is in a prime position to carry on delivering growth for the foreseeable future. It's attractively valued on several metrics and has strong fundamentals, as a company of its stature should have. A small payout ratio means dividend growth investors will be happy with a pay rise of, I expect, 7-12% a year over the long term.
Raytheon is a company that is committed to giving the shareholder a rising income every year through dividend increases and also capital appreciation, for a double whammy!
They say the best defense is offense, but with a stock like this, I don't think that logic applies! Play defensive, protect your assets and reap the benefits that Raytheon has to offer.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050810:10
SYMBOL = YHOO
High price earnings ratio stocks and momentum sectors have continued their deep declines this week within a pullback that began in early March.
Partly as a result of the negative sentiment in some parts of the technology space, Yahoo has sold off 15% from its recent highs.
This looks like a good buying opportunity as the market is undervaluing the company's assets especially its huge stake in Alibaba.
The second wave of selling in high price earnings ratio stocks and momentum sectors seems to be underway. After a big sell-off in these names for around six weeks starting at the beginning of March, it appeared these sectors were stabilizing somewhat.
However, this pullback seems to have accelerated this week, driven by poor guidance from the likes of Whole Food Markets (NASDAQ:WFM) and FireEye (NASDAQ:FEYE), which put those stocks in freefall. In addition, Twitter (NYSE:TWTR) is off more than 20% this week, and its decline has hit the entire social media space hard, judging by the continued sell-offs in Yelp Inc. (NYSE:YELP), LinkedIn (NYSE:LNKD) and Groupon (NASDAQ:GRPN).
Some of the previous high momentum tech names like Splunk (NASDAQ:SPLK), Rackspace (NYSE:RAX) and the aforementioned FireEye and Twitter look eerily similar to the first month of the internet bust that commenced in March 2000. The descent has become just plain ugly.
One tech stock that has sold off in a way that looks unwarranted is Yahoo (NASDAQ:YHOO). The shares are now down ~15% from its highs in early March. I picked up an initial stake in this tech play yesterday as buying the stock at these levels seems like a "no-brainer."
The company owns ~24% of Alibaba, which filed for one of the largest IPOs in history the other day. Estimates of what this huge Chinese online tech giant could be valued at from a market capitalization perspective are all over the map. TheStreet put out a good piece the other day showing some good work to calculate the value of Alibaba as between $115B and $245B.
This is a wide range but here is the thing. At the midpoint of that range of $180B; Yahoo's stake would be worth something like $43B. At the low end of the range and the stake would be worth north of $27B. Yahoo's entire market capitalization currently is just $35B. Taking out the net cash gets it to an approximate market cap of $33B, $10B below what its Alibaba stake could be worth at its midpoint according to TheStreet. This is not an outlier judging by other analyst estimates out there on Alibaba's market capitalization.
Yes, the company will have to pay taxes on the sale but this seems to be a huge opportunity to buy some Yahoo significantly under what the company's assets are worth. After the sale, Yahoo will have a huge amount of "dry powder" to make strategic acquisitions and/or return capital to shareholders either through stock repurchases and/or dividend payouts.
In addition, the company is solidly profitable with earnings expected to come in around $1.65 a share on some $4.5B in revenues for FY2014. The stocks goes for ~$34 a share after a recent pullback which is substantially below the $43 a share median price target held by the 27 analysts that follow the stock. Given its Alibaba stake and solid fundamentals, this equity seems like it is offering a great entry point after its recent decline.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050810:21
SYMBOL = AMZN
With Alibaba's upcoming IPO, could we see investors pay more attention to this potential threat to Amazon?.
Look at the slowing growth at Amazon and how even brick and mortar retailers such as WMT have higher growth via their websites.
Discuss what a loss in faith among Amazon shareholders could look like.
With the Alibaba IPO not too far down the road there is a lot of talk about how the company is going to alter the tech world. Already the company has built a solid marketplace model, which is extremely profitable and continues to grow at a solid rate. The listing in the US has some speculating that the company will become an acquirer and begin to bundle services like other online retailers who are based in the US and have easy access to start-ups offering new apps and other services that help sell products online.
The economic numbers out of China are easing market fears this morning, however Europe had some weaker numbers that adds to recent weakness in some of the larger economies in the EU. The claims data out of the US was a little better than estimates this morning and that is good news, although not a big enough beat to cause a lot of excitement. Employment is an ongoing issue with the economy, but baby steps eventually deliver greater results.
Chart of the Day:
With many of the high-fliers running into serious headwinds in recent weeks, the Nasdaq has itself been stuck in a trading range. It is looking more and more like we are set to test 4,000 once again, which might not be a bad thing in the current market. We are not just watching the momentum stocks for direction but also small caps as they are a good indicator of the risk-on trade in the market.
We have economic news today, and it is as follows:
Initial Claims (8:30 a.m. EST): Est: 325k Act: 319k
Continuing Claims (8:30 a.m. EST): Est: 2750k Act: 2685k
Natural Gas Inventories (10:30 a.m. EST): Est: N/A
Asian markets are higher today:
We have watched for years as Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN) defied critics and continued to spend on growth, dealing earnings to sometime down the road while incurring expenses in the present. That mentality has worked for roughly 15 years, however with growth expected to dip below the 20% threshold this year it does appear that significant headwinds are finally being run into.
We thought that the traders would come in and support the stock around the psychologically significant level of $300/share but were surprised when that did not materialize. With the cult that is Amazon shareholders not stepping up to the plate now, we have to wonder what that means moving forward as these individuals have been ardent supporters of the company's plan for many years.
Amazon's stock has yet to find support, but there should be a bounce in the future off of these levels. Not necessarily a long-term bounce, but a short-term move.
What is changing is the landscape of the company's namesake retail website. Yes, it is quite dominant but with recent reports that Wal-Mart's (NYSE:WMT) online sales are now growing faster than Amazon's (see the Wall Street Journal article here) for the first time in a decade we have to believe that investors are beginning to question the multiple afforded by Amazon stock.
Amazon Killer?
Although Wal-Mart is a formidable competitor, it falls short of offering a superior service online. There are some however who are now looking to Alibaba as the real threat to Amazon's franchise and wonder if Alibaba can make inroads into the lucrative marketplace business segment. This would most likely result in both Amazon and eBay (NASDAQ:EBAY) losing market share to Alibaba owned entities down the road. More importantly the company's IPO will provide them the currency to leverage their international operations as well as begin to purchase US based tech firms with products that are good add-ons to Alibaba's current offerings. The recent deal with Shoprunner, a company that Alibaba owns nearly 40% of, should provide investors with an idea of how Alibaba will utilize the companies it maintains an ownership interest in to better compete on the international stage with Amazon.
It will take many years to officially become an 'Amazon Killer' but with the size of the company's impending IPO and the infrastructure it already has in place this is already a formidable competitor for Amazon and could also create major headaches for other web titans such as eBay with their auction and retail sites as well as the PayPal service.
What A Correction Could Look Like
If long-time supporters of Amazon begin to lose faith, we could see a situation develop that resembles what is taking place at Groupon (NASDAQ:GRPN). It is a sobering idea, but could very well be a reality if Amazon has to continue to reinvent the company moving forward to maintain their growth rates while potentially realizing diminishing returns. There are fewer markets today available for Amazon to move into, and Alibaba is providing investors with a glimpse of just how thin Amazon's margins are at the exact time that growth is slowing at the tech behemoth.
If investors stop buying into the Amazon story and their new avenues for growth, we could see a quick pullback like the one Groupon experienced recently.
Our thinking is that if investors start to bail that the actual reaction will not be as negative as what took place at Groupon as Amazon has some key business franchises, which would be quite expensive to even attempt to mimic, let alone whittle away at the company's large market share. Like Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL), Amazon is a company, which has to continue to crank out new products and services to keep investors excited; any slowdown in innovation paired with an ever slowing growth rate could indicate a storm ahead. Most likely we are looking at a situation mirroring Apple's correction, not Groupon's.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050810:30
SYMBOL = F
Recent events have further undermined a struggling stock.
But analyst upgrade, price target, and technical indicators support the undervalued thesis.
And the stock also seems range-bound for short-term traders to take advantage of.
Ford Motor (NYSE:F) has been in the news for a lot of not-so-positive reasons recently. April sales weren't impressive, and the departure of the revered CEO was confirmed. The company also halted product in Venezuela. Hence, it is no wonder that the stock has been almost flat YTD. However, this article presents a few reasons why Ford seems like a reasonable buy here. Let us get into the details.
April Sales: Wait, what? Did we not say April sales weren't impressive? Yes, but the report did have some positives as well. The all-important F-Series showed strength again, with a 7.4% gain YoY. Trucks tend to have bigger profit margins, and the strong numbers here should be encouraging for investors.
Lincoln sales showed signs of getting back to life in March, as covered here, but it would be too much to expect it to show strength in two consecutive months this early in its turnaround. In addition, April U.S numbers weren't terrible, keeping in mind that Ford has shown more strength in the U.K and China recently.
Price Target: Ford's average price target was in the $17 range for quite some time, but has now moved to $18.27, according to 14 analysts on Yahoo Finance. Morningstar, a website that many value investors love, has a fair value of $25 for Ford. To put that into perspective, other well-known dividend stocks like Altria Group (NYSE:MO) and AT&T (NYSE:T) are trading at or way above Morningstar's fair value.
Analyst Upgrade: Ford recently was upgraded by Craig-Hallum with a price target of $21. That represents more than 30% upside, without including dividends. And before investors brush off this upgrade as one from a fan boy, the same firm downgraded Ford toward the end of 2013.
Buyback: Ford announced after-hours that it was buying back 116 million shares. Although it seems like this buyback is mainly to offset shares granted to executives and conversion of convertible notes, it is nonetheless a positive move. As the chart below shows, Ford's float has been steadily going up, and this buyback would at least stop the uptrend, if not reduce the count.
Technical Indicator: Ford's undervalued theory is supported by technical reasons as well. The chart below shows Ford's relative strength index (RSI) at 30.04, which is the textbook level for being considered oversold.
Despite all these positives, Ford still seems stuck in its $15 to $16 trading level, as there have been equally powerful negatives impacting the stock. That said, we believe this stock is still fundamentally undervalued for the long term, and investors should carefully buy on dips. This stock is not only about potential capital gains, but a juicy 3.20% yield as well. Unless things go awry, investors can also expect a dividend increase toward the end of the year.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050811:22
SYMBOL = TSLA
The thesis that U.S. deliveries for the Model S peaked remains in force.
This is so in spite of Tesla talking about 10% sequential growth in North American net orders.
This is also in spite of growth in customer deposits.
This fact means that Tesla's 2014 35,000 deliveries estimate is in danger. Unless China/UK/Japan spring a large surprise, such an estimate would probably require growth in the U.S.
As Tesla (NASDAQ:TSLA) starts the day in the red after reporting earnings, people continue to grasp onto any floating debris to keep their beliefs alive. And Tesla, as always, is throwing enough floaters into the sea to keep the faith.
Today, two pieces of flotsam caught my attention. I'll discuss them in this article.
North American demand
By now, the thesis that North American deliveries have peaked is well established. Even analysts comment as much. The following represents the best estimate as to what American deliveries have been since Q1 2013:
* The 4000 is a result of overall deliveries reported by the company (6900) minus European deliveries (2900). The Q4 2013 European deliveries (2900) are inferred from 2013 European deliveries (3900) minus Q3 2013 European deliveries (1000).
** Q1 2014 3650 U.S. deliveries are estimated from the previous 3850 U.S. deliveries estimate for Q1 2014, minus 200 or so, which amounts to how much overall TSLA came in below previous expectations.
It's hard to argue that this represents peaked U.S. deliveries. It takes a lot of faith to believe that there's an underlying demand current not represented in these deliveries. But, knowing Tesla investors' predisposition to believe, Tesla's management threw them a bone with the following statement:
North American net orders grew sequentially by more than 10% in the quarter. As always, we are pursuing our expansion through a direct-sales model to accelerate the transition to sustainable transportation. Selling directly allows us to most effectively communicate the unique benefits of electric cars to potential customers, as well as improve the buying and servicing experience.
Suddenly, the struggling speculators had a piece of wood to grab onto. "My God, the peaked deliveries thesis is false, for surely Tesla does not lie onto us!"
Putting aside the fact that delivery numbers in the U.S. are clearly and objectively dropping quarter after quarter, which makes discussing this somewhat unreal, I'll highlight the following:
First, Tesla did not say that it was referring to North American net orders for the Model S. This more than likely means that it was not referring just to the Model S, and instead is including Model X net orders in that phrase, rendering it true. For sure, if we include Model X, then net orders climbing 10% sequentially is not that hard - after all, even if Model S net orders were dropping 10% sequentially, you'd just need Model X orders amounting to 20% of Model S orders, or roughly 700 cars, to have net orders for North America rising 10% sequentially;
Secondly, it's also relevant that Tesla chose to only comment on sequential orders. Why talk about quarter-on-quarter orders? Why not also comment on year-on-year orders? This has a significant implication: That it's not a coincidence and year-on-year orders are negative, thus keeping the peaked thesis alive.
Either way, the lack of transparency is ominous. But it doesn't matter much; the deliveries estimates speak louder than these hollow pieces of driftwood. Tesla would simply do better to disclose everything regarding orders and sales, instead, Tesla doesn't even break down geographies at this point.
Breaking down geographies is ever more relevant. After all, Tesla is starting to ship cars to China, the UK (right-hand drive) and later in the summer, Japan. Without knowing how many cars are going to these new markets, it's very difficult to gauge how existing markets are doing. But still, with Tesla guiding for 7500 deliveries in Q2 2013, including China and the UK, it seems easy to tell that there's not much in the way of growth for markets ex-China/UK.
Another source of hope for Tesla fans is the way customer deposits have been growing. Assumptions are stretched to conclude for the best, that demand is exploding, that there are orders for gazillions of cars already in the books. Siddharth Dalal, in his "Tesla Earnings Call Decimates Most Bear Arguments" shows this phenomenon. I quote:
Customer deposits is the most overlooked number provided by Tesla and consistently ignored by Tesla bears. However, that is the best number we have from Tesla for actual Model S demand.
We can estimate Model X demand from volunteer trackers at the Tesla Motor Club forum. At $5,000 for a production model and $40,000 for a signature Model, the maximum possible deposit we have for the Model X is about $134 million. Tesla however holds deposits of $198 million, leaving $64 million for the Model S. That is a backlog of over 25,000 cars at a $2500 deposit per car. However, Tesla does hold orders for Signature models in some markets. The Signature order ratio of the Model X is about 12%. If we assume the same for the Model S and that Tesla holds Signature orders for half their market, we have that as 6% for the Model S. This would represent a backlog of over 13,000 for the Model S and that is a lower bound.
With this kind of backlog, any demand slowdown thesis is soundly invalid. From a similar estimate last quarter, the deposits for the Model S were about $58 million.
This seems like solid logic. Take away $134 million for the Model X, and the rest, the other $64 million is Model S. But there's a problem Siddharth Dalal didn't account for. Here it goes 
Tesla has received several hundred reservations since it started taking orders in August, Veronica Wu, Tesla China's vice president, said in an interview in Beijing today. She declined to provide specific figures, saying buyers need to pay a 250,000 yuan deposit to reserve a car.
There you have it: reserving a Model S cost 250,000 yuan in China, at least until late January. And 250,000 yuan is roughly $40000, not $2500. China has been taking orders since August 2013, and by late January, had gotten "several hundred" reservations, while asking $40000 in deposits for each one. So clearly, a great deal of those $64 million in Model S reservations is from Chinese orders at $40000 each, 1000 of which would consume $40 million. So even customer deposits are wildly misleading regarding the demand for Model S, and certainly don't imply tens of thousands of units yet to be delivered.
Still, with Tesla delivering the first units towards the UK and China, there's still a backlog, which allows Tesla to continue meeting the near-term deliveries estimates. But this is being achieved towards adding more and more markets, not through the expansion of existing markets. Tesla, though, is running out of new markets.
The 35,000 deliveries for 2014 are clearly sounding risky. With 6,500 in Q1, 7,500 in Q2, that leaves 21,000 for Q3, Q4. While Tesla seems able to build those cars, it's not so clear that it will be able to sell and deliver them - as for the first time, doing so would imply having to expand deliveries in existing U.S./European markets, and not just rely on adding new markets (of which Japan seems to be the last large remaining one after Q2 2014).
A positive word
What Tesla has achieved has been tremendous. It took the high-end of the car market by storm and made the leaders pay attention. Certainly, Tesla showed that at the right price and performance, there's a market for EVs. Due to Tesla having proved this, other car makers are forced to respond and field many more EVs and PHEVs.
I need to congratulate Tesla on these achievements, or else it would seem that I was just writing negative gibberish on it. Lest there be no doubt:
What Tesla has achieved was tremendous;
I hope and believe that EVs will become a large force in the car market.
It's just that EVs becoming mainstream doesn't necessarily mean Tesla ends up the winner. Wild speculation without regard to valuation usually doesn't end well. Still, Tesla has done magnificently.
While Tesla continues to spin North American demand as if it was growing in spite of ever-lower deliveries in U.S. soil, there continues to be reason to believe U.S. deliveries have long peaked.
Furthermore, customer deposits are not a reason for demand optimism, since they include Chinese cars at $40,000 apiece.
Finally, Tesla has done tremendously well and transformed the high-end of the car market. But for now, there seems to be significant limits as to the growth it can achieve with its present lineup, some of those limits being imposed by the very segment Tesla is selling into. With Q3 and Q4 needing to show growth in existing markets, there continues to be a significant likelihood that Tesla won't be able to meet that growth expectation unless China/UK/Japan spring a huge surprise.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050811:32
SYMBOL = GE
General Electric knows what it is up against.
While the company has been saying all of the right things, it knows Alstom's value has dropped almost 40% in the trailing 12 months.
Immelt is doing his job diplomatically, and shows that he is willing to listen and renegotiate. But patience has its limits.
GE has already gone back to the well once. It should not have to do it again.
Regardless of how any of this plays out, General Electric's (NYSE:GE) bid for struggling French company, Alstom (OTCPK:ALSMY) will likely go down as one of the best corporate battles in the last 50 years. This is not just hyperbole.
Consider, not only does General Electric have to fight off German rival Siemens (SI), but the company, specifically CEO Jeff Immelt, has to play the role of a diplomat for the French government. And in the middle of all of this, GE has to pretend as if it's not in a bidding war with itself.
I say this knowing full well that Siemens has made a "counter-offer." Siemens has proposed an asset swap, offering to acquire Alstom's power businesses in return for its high-speed train and locomotive units. Aside from "getting in the way," it's also possible that Siemens was "urged" to enter the mix by the French government, which needed another bidder to get GE to up its price. And it worked.
For Siemens' efforts, the company is seen as protecting its turf. The French government was successful at squeezing an extra $4 billion from General Electric. Recall, the original bid for Alstom was for $13 billion. Although Alstom has a strong market position in the power generation and transport industry, some believed the $13 billion was already too high of a premium to pay. Now, GE is being scrutinized for overextending itself.
Last week, Alstom's board accepted a $17 billion all-cash offer. But the French government wanted Siemens to seal the deal. For the French government, the concern was related to job losses. Given Siemens' close proximity to France, it was believed that Siemens would be more "in-tune" with the French employment climate.
But Jeff Immelt met with the French government's finance minister and promised to hire more workers. Immelt also said the company will make France its global base for its steam turbine, electric grid, offshore wind and hydropower businesses. GE's concessions were only good enough to appease the French government for a few days. Now, negotiations are reportedly "ongoing."
Wednesday, the government insisted that GE should revise its bid for Alstom's energy division. Note, the energy division accounts for roughly 70% group revenue. Not only that, but the government is asking GE to hand over its freight train business to Alstom's remaining transport unit. That's not going to happen. It can't happen. Alstom, which was not in the best of health to begin with, understands that GE won't budge.
This latest maneuvering prompted Alstom management on Wednesday to plea for closure. Not only did they cancel their dividend, but the company's recent earrings revealed weakening fundamentals, such as a decline in orders and profits. Alstom desperately needs this deal to happen. But the company is being pawned by the French government, which is looking to protect its interests. And it's using Siemens to do it.
Siemens doesn't mind being used, as long as it gets a chance to delay the inevitable. Siemens is onboard with anything to stunt GE's progress. But the door is still left open for Siemens to show that it is serious about its counter-offer. Siemens stands to become one of the world's largest manufacturers of equipment for power plants and electric transmissions. Plus, its train assets would form a France-based rail industry leader, bringing together the German company's ICE high-speed trains with Alstom's iconic TGV. This is what the French government hopes to see.
But General Electric knows what it is up against. While the company has been saying all of the right things, it knows Alstom's value has dropped almost 40% in the trailing 12 months. Immelt is doing his job diplomatically, and shows that he is willing to listen and renegotiate. But patience has its limits. I'm not suggesting that GE should walk away from Alstom. But GE also has to show that it is not a pushover. It has already gone back to the well once. It should not have to do it again.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050811:51
SYMBOL = CVX
Stabilized capex and completion of major LNG projects should help cash flow growth.
Strong balance sheet allows for higher leverage to fund capital deployment.
The company has sufficient resources to support 8%-10% annual dividend growth.
Current valuation reflects 6%-7% dividend growth.
The stock also trades favorably to its global peers.
The share price of Chevron (NYSE:CVX) has risen by almost 16% since dropping to its 52-week low of $109.27 in February. In my view, it is still not late for long-term dividend investors to accumulate the shares at the current level as the price upside remains large given the company's healthy cash flow prospects as well as its inexpensive stock valuation.
Chevron recently reported Q1 2014 results, which fell short of expectations. However, the miss was largely due to extraordinary items including write-downs and currency effects. The company indeed delivered a few positive messages, which I believe, would benefit dividend investors. At the Analyst Day early this year, management indicated that capital spending has reached its peak level. As promised, the spending in Q1 2014 was only up 4% from Q1 2013, compared to a 20% capex growth in Q1 2013. Annual capex in 2014 is expected to be around $35B and will remain flattish through 2016. In addition, the Gorgon LNG project has reached 80% completion and is on track to commence operation in 2015. As capital expenditure continues to cool off and a mega LNG project comes online, Chevron should see strong cash flow growth over the next few years.
I have performed a cash flow forecast to illustrate Chevron's capacity to cover its capital programs (i.e. capex, dividend, and share repurchase) over the coming 3 years. My analysis started with consensus revenue forecasts from 2014 to 2016. I noted that the company has been doing a great job in maintaining an operating cash flow ("OCF") margin of 16%-17% over the past 3 years. In this analysis, I assumed a 16.0% OCF margin through 2016, which is at the low end of the 3-year historical range. As a result, OCF would reach $39.9B by 2016 based on my assumption. It should be noted that this is a much more conservative forecast than management's long-term OCF guidance, which calls for $50B OCF by 2017. Based on the company's capex expectation (i.e. ~$35B through 2016), I assumed capex to decrease from $37B in 2014 to $36B. At the Analyst Day, management also noted a plan to divest approximately $10B non-core assets over the coming 3 years. As such, I assumed $3.3B annual proceeds from asset sale through 2016. Assuming Chevron continues to borrow $3.0B to $3.5B per year, the resulting distributable cash flow is able to support 8% to 10% annual dividend increase (see chart below). Given that both Chevron's net debt to EBITDA and total debt to capital ratios are way below the average levels of its global integrated oil peers (see chart below), the company should have ample capacity for higher leverage. Even with a total $9.5B borrowing in between 2014 and 2016 (what I have assumed), the pro forma total debt to capital ratio in 2016 will be just around 17%, which is still much lower than the peer average at 26%, meaning that Chevron can incur more debt than I have assumed to fund share repurchase.
In terms of valuation, I believe the shares are trading at a somewhat attractive level from both absolute and relative perspectives. The company recently announced a 7% increase in quarterly dividend from $1.00 per share to $1.07 per share. Based on an annualized dividend of $4.28 per share and 10% cost of equity (it is noted that CAPM model calls for a 9.4% cost of equity based on 3.0% risk-free rate, 6% equity risk premium, and Chevron's 5-year beta of 1.04), the Gordon growth dividend discount model suggests that the current share price of ~$126 implies a perpetual 6.5% dividend growth rate. Given my views that 1) Chevron should see continued cash flow improvement over the next few years due to stabilized capital spending trend and completion of major LNG projects and 2) the company also has ample borrowing capacity to support its capital deployment, I believe future dividend growth should be in the range from 7% to 10% over a medium term, suggesting that the current stock valuation has somewhat underestimated the dividend growth prospects. Based on the sensitivity table shown below, a combination of 10% cost of equity and just 7.0% dividend growth would result in a share value of $150.
From a relative perspective, Chevron trades at 8% to 15% discount to its peer average level based on various forward valuation multiples though its consensus long-term EPS growth estimate is only slightly below peer average, making the stock's PEG ratio below par (see chart below).
In conclusion, Chevron's solid dividend growth can be sustained over a medium term thanks to the company's healthy fundamentals and strong balance sheet. As the stock valuation remains inexpensive in a way that the future dividend potential is likely underappreciated, income investors are recommended to buy the shares now.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050812:08
SYMBOL = GPOR
Look at why GPOR investors are disappointed and selling off shares this morning.
Discuss why readers should hold off and not rush in to buy shares on today's dip.
Look at other players in the Utica and the good news for them moving forward.
Last night saw some bad news for one of the Utica shale players we follow, as well as own, but even in a bad release one can find opportunities to invest. Listening to portions of the conference call today we now that some of the 13,000 acres added by Gulfport Energy (NASDAQ:GPOR) are actually in West Virginia and they are following a strict program to lock up land; one that closely resembles how they got into the core of the Utica play. This can only be bullish for those with acreage heading in that direction, such as Antero Resources (NYSE:AR), and companies with large southern Utica land positions.
Looking at the general commodity markets, we may have some headwinds on the horizon as it appears that the ECB will raise rates in the near future and the pro-Russian opposition in eastern Ukraine appear to have their own agenda separate from Putin right now. The latest reports we have read have the referendum to break away from Ukraine still taking place this weekend, something that contradicts Putin's public wishes.
The euro is moving sharply lower today after comments about how expensive the currency has become relative to those of other countries such as the US. This is quite true and the one year chart below shows just how strong that move has been. The economy in Europe has improved, but it seems quite possible that with rates as low as they are and the euro as high as it is that investors may have become too bullish on the region.
We do not get worked up about disappointments on quarterly results as it pertains to our E&P plays, but this is when it applies to the EPS and revenue figures. Trying to pinpoint those numbers on fast growing companies which hedge most, if not all, of their production is a fool's game. If the analysts get the numbers wrong, why punish the company? That makes no sense to us, however when a company misses on their production numbers, or lowers their production guidance, then we pay attention.
So it is very fair to say that Gulfport Energy got our full attention yesterday when they announced their results with a lowered production guidance range. The company lowered their FY 2014 production guidance to 37,000-42,000 boe/d versus their previous 50,000-60,000 boe/d. We are listening to the call right now, and after looking over the press release yesterday it seems the company decided to lower their figures as they look to follow the new CEO's plan to build a drilling inventory to make their operations more efficient.
Our call on April 22 to sell a portion of Gulfport shares in one's portfolio and to use the proceeds to purchase PDC Energy (NASDAQ:PDCE) and EV Energy Partners, LP (NASDAQ:EVEP) has turned out well for those who went that route. The call was based less on our fear of Gulfport disappointing and more on value in the market. Sometimes you get lucky when making moves such as these and this call is obviously one of those times.
This 5 day chart shows the significance of today's move. It erases most of the gains from the previous 52-weeks.
With this big sell-off resulting from the change in management's plan for development we will be looking to rotate back into Gulfport at some point in the future, but we believe there will be plenty of time to create new positions. We still think that PDC Energy and EV Energy Partners have the potential to outperform Gulfport moving forward and will keep what we have allocated to those names there. Any proceeds from the sale of other positions would qualify to be invested in Gulfport but right now we think buying more than 10% of the overall position one would like to establish would be a mistake. This is something that is going to take a quarter or two to set up and get functioning correctly before investors can claim victory, so readers should look to play the long game here if interested in increasing exposure once again.
Halcon Delivers
Readers know that we have been watching very closely another name in our portfolio because we put it on a short leash not too long ago. Since saying that Halcon Resources (NYSE:HK) was on its last straw, the company has seemed to turn a corner, both in its results and in the positive news flow that investors have enjoyed.
Since originally recommending this one to readers it has been a tough ride. With today's move the stock is now finally positive since that initial call.
Halcon also announced results last night, beating both EPS and revenue figures. As we said before, these are two numbers that we do not place a lot of faith in quarter to quarter. The number that we do care about, production, did come in above the high end of the company's previous guidance which has us feeling much better about the stock moving forward. With the recent performance, both from an operating standpoint as well as in the market, we are letting Halcon Resources out of the dog house. We are not buyers again as we feel we have enough exposure right now, but we are certainly not sellers at this time.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050812:44
SYMBOL = YELP
International expansion provides growth catalyst.
Cohorts nearing 10-years old are still growing in the 60% range.
The stock is approaching cheap valuations based on growth prospects.
The incredible part of the Yelp (NYSE:YELP) story is the consumer review site is only getting started internationally. During April, the company entered the 26th country in the form of Japan, but it only obtains roughly 3% of revenue from those international locations.
The stock has been absolutely crushed with investors abandoning the hot social media stocks of 2013. At these moments, its good for investors to distinguish between a company and a stock. Yelp the company reported fantastic results for Q114 and provided more solid guidance for the rest of the year. In addition, the company did a fantastic job of portraying a thriving business with tons of growth catalysts for the future. Yelp the stock was priced for perfection back at the start of March when it hit over $100 and traded at valuations approaching 20x forward revenues.
Now the valuation is down to a more respectable 7x forward revenues and within a level that will make an attractive investment, but lets review some of the metrics to see how we get to that determination.
As mentioned above, the company generated solid results suggesting further strong growth. Investors looking for positive earnings were no doubt disappointed, but it doesn't add up that they were invested in Yelp in the first place.
Net revenue was $76.4 million in the first quarter of 2014, reflecting 66% growth from the first quarter of 2013.
Cumulative reviews grew 46% year over year to approximately 57 million.
Average monthly unique visitors grew 30% year over year to approximately 132 million and average monthly mobile unique visitors grew 52% year over year to around 61 million.
Active local business accounts grew 65% year over year to approximately 74 thousand.
International reviews grew 210% and international traffic grew 95% year over year.
Again, all of these metrics highlight an incredibly run company. Naturally, the concern that is causing investors to dump the stock is the reported loss of $(2.6) million, or $(.04) per share. Oddly, numbers that were better than expected and initially sent the stock higher, but the market did an about face and decided to crush the stock after the initial run up following earnings.
Yelp has plenty of growth catalysts with international expansion being a prime focus. International revenue only hit $2.5 million during the first quarter, but other growth opportunities exist within the U.S. based solidly on signing up more and more users and business accounts.
The company estimates that roughly 25 million small businesses exist in both the U.S. and Europe. With only 74,000 active business accounts, Yelp has a long runway for adding business accounts. Only obtaining 10% of the business accounts in both the U.S. and Europe would cause the active accounts to explode to 5 million from only 74,000 today.
Other opportunities exist for growing the engagement within the site. The company recently starting partnering with Booker to allow spa appointments to be booked directly from the site. In addition, the integration of SeatMe that the company purchased last year provides for plenty of growth in the area of reserving a table at a restaurant.
Investors not understanding the growth potential of the concept and the reason for ongoing losses needs to look no further than the cohort analysis from the earnings slides.
Though the slide lacks the cost aspects, one can quickly make a reasonable guess that the more established cohorts have solid margins. In addition, the huge growth by the cohorts that are going on 10 years old showcase the potential for the company.
This slide highlights the growth potential of international expansion and why the company isn't showing profits. With the entry into Japan and Mexico, the company is spending money to support the site and build up a user presence, yet the revenue will lag for a few years. Yelp could easily stop expanding markets and quickly generate a profit off the original cohorts of San Francisco and New York, but it wouldn't provide that long-term growth opportunity.
The stock valuation is more compelling now that its lost nearly 50% of its March value. The key to understanding the value proposition is that Yelp will quickly grow into about any metric used by investors. The stock trades at an enterprise value multiple of forward revenues of around 6x. This might appear expensive to investors, but even Google (NASDAQ:GOOG) with a market value of nearly $350 billion and a growth rate of around 20% trades at an enterprise value of nearly 5x forward revenues.
Yelp provides a good example of the extremes of the market. Investors need to focus back on the company and realize that it provides an excellent investment in the global consumer review business. It is a must own stock whether one thinks the stock is still going lower or it has already hit bottom. Analysts expect near 60% revenue growth for the year and profits near breakeven. The stock could go lower, but with that type of growth the company will quickly grow into the existing stock price and surpass it.
The company has too many growth catalysts including international expansion and new tools for the domestic website to remain at the current valuation for much longer. With Yelp just getting started, investors shouldn't be selling now.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050812:50
SYMBOL = BBBY
BBBY has been and remains a great company with a multitude of answers to questions of quality.
The business is worth investing in at the right price.
Headwinds, and in turn, deterioration in key financials, keep the stock from being a buy at $61.
Bed Bath & Beyond (NASDAQ:BBBY) sells domestic and home goods through nearly 1500 retail locations in North America. The company was founded in 1971, and went public in 1992.
Positives
I am attracted to Bed Bath & Beyond for a few reasons:
It doesn't get much simpler to understand than retail, and Bed Bath & Beyond, though it sells a variety of goods through various store brand concepts, sticks to products within the domestic and home categories. The company's 10-K is surprisingly short for a $12B company.
The company has returned 89% of cash flow to shareholders in the past two years via share repurchases, repurchased over $1B in each of the last 3 years, and cut its share count by 22% over the last 5 years.
Besides having no debt, the company has cash and investments of $943M, for a net cash position that is 8% of the company's market cap.
Growing total FCF and the aforementioned share repurchases have combined to deliver a 5-year FCF/share CAGR of 21%, and the FCF growth and repurchases should continue.
People I know shop at and think highly of the company's stores, especially Christmas Tree Shops, which seems to have a cult-like loyal customer base. It also should be a potential growth avenue for the company, as there are only 77 CTS stores currently.
The company's CEO, Steven Temares, has been with the company for ~20 years throughout the solid performance, and the company is co-chaired by its two founders.
With an enterprise value of $11.5B and TTM maintenance free cash flow of $1.164B, BBBY trades at a low EV/FCF multiple of 9.9x. Anything under 10 for a growing company has my interest.
For those reasons, the stock is on my watch list, and I would be comfortable owning a concentrated position at the right price, but I am not a buyer right now, because the company does face headwinds that have had a visible impact on financials, and the stock is not cheap enough to buy in the face of those headwinds.
While retail is easy to understand, it is also a dangerous area to invest in. Great companies can get destroyed by changing consumer trends and purchasing methods relatively quickly. Fixed costs lead to rapid operating deleverage, and debt masked as operating leases makes retailers less financially strong than one would initially think to withstand rough times. I've only lost money investing in retail in the past, and definitely have a bias against the sector.
Management has done a nice job investing to make the company omnichannel-capable. The website is easy to use, and in-store pickup is great, but BBBY has significantly higher margins than Amazon, and most of its products are small and feasible for online purchase.
Other headwinds have had a clear impact on the company's financials. Gross margin, operating margin, sales growth, comps, and EPS growth have all declined over the past 2 years, and that is expected to continue, though slowly.
The company only expects EPS to grow mid-single digits in 2014. Adjusting 2013 growth for weather and 2012's 53rd week, etc., means further deceleration in earnings growth from 2013, and with the management expecting to repurchase >$1B shares again in 2014, the growth should only be attributable to lower share count. The operations are not improving, and it's not clear if and when they will beyond 2014.
There are a lot of reasons to like Bed Bath & Beyond, but also some serious reasons not to invest at this price. I feel that the stock is in a sort of limbo zone right now, where it is slightly undervalued such that the discount to fair value is not enough to attract new investors, while on the other side, it is not fully valued for current investors to be satisfied taking profits. If there's any conclusion to be made, it may be that the stock will remain in this range on relatively lower volume levels. I'd happily consider buying with another 10% decline or so.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050813:16
SYMBOL = GIMO
At around $17, Gigamon offers high growth at a bargain valuation, which completely discounts takeover premium.
Gigamon offers high-growth on the top and bottom lines.
Gigamon generates 75%-77% gross margins and targets 23%-28% operational margins.
Gigamon is a high probability takeover candidate.
Gigamon (NYSE:GIMO) is a network visibility, monitoring and security vendor that went public in 2013, and is still fairly undiscovered and unfamiliar to investors. It is not your typical IPO company as it has developed market leading technologies, has been profitable for several years, and is growing its top line at 25%-35% YoY.
The company has grown top line in excess of 30% over the past several years, and this growth is expected to continue at 25%-35% given the company's nascent 7% penetration rate of its TAM. This future growth will come from underpenetrated enterprise markets including Fortune 1000 companies, international expansion, further penetration into the service provider market, and expansion into security offerings. The company's TAM (total addressable market) is estimated between $2 and $3 billion growing at double digits annually driven by cloud and big data, as well as the rapid transition from 1G Ethernet connections to 10G, 40G and 100G connections.
Gigamon is a likely strategic M&A candidate given its technology and reasonable valuation. Among potential suitors are traditional switch and routing companies (Cisco, Brocade, and Juniper) as well as Oracle, IBM, Hewlett Packard, Dell, Riverbed, F5 Networks with Oracle, and Cisco making the most strategic sense.
Oracle has made acquisitions of complementary technologies by buying session-border controller specialist Acme Packet and network optimization specialist Tekelec at premiums of 8 and 10 times their revenues, respectively. Gigamon's leading technology and products would bolster Oracle's fledgling network tools solutions and its hardware business (formerly Sun) in its effort to further diversify into enterprise network and service provider markets. Oracle needs Gigamon to solidify its data center, cloud and big data offerings as the industry transitions from 1G to 10G, 40G and 100G Ethernet connections. For Cisco, Gigamon's technology will be value adding to its switching and data center offerings. And Cisco has to cherish Gigamon's 75%-77% gross margins and targeted operating margins of 23%-28%. For both Riverbed and F5 Networks, acquisition of Gigamon would make strategic sense in terms of technology and addressable markets. For example, Riverbed acquired network performance specialist Opnet for 6 times revenues and already closely partners with Gigamon. It may also consider acquiring Gigamon to fend off the acquisition proposal by an activist investor Elliott Management.
We are a little perplexed as to the reason(s) Gigamon has not yet been acquired, but our best guess is that it is a matter of price. Mind you, Gigamon's largest shareholder (18%), Highland Capital Partners, is a venture capital firm and is not in the business of long-term investing in public companies. It was a seller at $38.50 in the October 2013 secondary offering. Highland's managing partner Corey Mulloy is the Chairman of Gigamon's Board. Gigamon also has five early 5%-plus investors who would become willing sellers if the price is right. Then the question becomes: What is the right price? Highland Capital Partners sold at the prices of $19.00 in the IPO and at $38.50 in the secondary offering.
We would speculate that it will be willing to entertain offers in the high $20s to low $30s range, which would value Gigamon at the reasonable acquisition valuation of between 5 and 6 times revenues (Acme Packet and Opnet were acquired at 8 and 6 times revenues, respectively). If Highland becomes an interested seller, bidding war is not out of the question. The acquisition premium can easily approach 60% to 80%, and we do not believe it is currently reflected in the stock price -- especially given the relatively high probability of Gigamon being acquired.
Gigamon's gross margins currently range between 75% and 81% and operating margins are targeted between 23% and 28%. Q1 FY 2014 and Q2 operating margins are depressed as a result of the investments in R&D and international sales force expansion. The company has $140 million in net cash, or $4.40 per share, and $0 in debt. YoY growth in deferred revenue is an indication of sustainability in future revenue growth.
The current stock price is $16.84 with $14.75 (52-week low) and $41.81 (52-week high). Total market value is $534 million, or about 3 times projected FY 2014 sales, with about 31.7 million shares outstanding. The stock's FY 2014 P/E of 40 (refer to Pt. 3) will decrease to FY2015 P/E of 20 net of cash. Mean analyst target on the stock is $25.08. Early investors and insiders own 63% of outstanding shares, with five early investors and insiders owning around 5% each for a total of 27.9% of outstanding shares and Highland Capital owning 18.6%.
Our investment thesis is as follows: Not all high-growth stocks are "priced" the same and after more than 50% collapse in its stock price, Gigamon could and should be considered a high-growth value stock. If the company can execute, and deliver on its financial guidance in coming quarters, we believe the stock could rise to the mid-$20s in the next six months. If Gigamon is acquired, we see the acquisition price of $28 to $32 based on comparable transactions analysis (refer to Pt. 2).
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050814:06
SYMBOL = VFC
VFC reassured on its top line outlook as the company reported a revenue beat in Q1 for the first time since Q4 ’12.
Timberland and Europe are accelerating, giving confidence in VFC’s ability to reach or even exceed its FY14 revenue growth target.
Margin expansion continues at a high pace and offers high visibility going forward.
A large acquisition could be an additional catalyst, as VFC is back to a comfortable net debt/EBITDA of 0.4x.
In-line with our scenario, Timberland and Europe accelerate
In our February 18 article, we remained constructive on V.F. Corporation (NYSE:VFC) despite an unimpressive set of Q4 figures and notably poor top line momentum. We argued at the time that revenue growth would pick up soon, thanks to an improving apparel sales environment in Europe (22% of VFC's revenues) and the expected growth inflection at Timberland following several tough years.
Our confidence paid off sooner than we expected, as VFC delivered strong Q1 EPS of $0.67 vs. the street's estimate of $0.63. The beat was mainly driven by an impressive gross margin improvement (+130bps to 49.4% vs. consensus around 48.8%) with the gross margin reaching an all-time high thanks to the rising weight of high-margin brands in the mix (The North Face, Timberland, Vans).
Importantly, the beat was also driven by some revenue upside (+6.5% growth vs. +5% expected), something that had not happened since Q4 2012. Investors were starting to debate the group's revenue outlook, and we believe that this Q1 release provided the much-expected relief. In-line with our scenario, Timberland accelerated to +12% revenue growth in the quarter, comparing well to the +10% growth guidance for 2014 and the +5% and flat growth reported respectively in 2013 and 2012. Europe showed signs of improvement, specifically in the jeanswear category.
Pretty high level of confidence heading into next quarters
Following this strong Q1 performance, VFC adjusted its FY14 revenue guidance to the high end of the previous +7-8% guidance and its EPS guidance to $3.06 from $3.00-$3.05. As VFC expects Q2 growth to be similar to that of Q1 (+6.5%), this suggests that the year will be back-end loaded. But this suggests as well that the group has probably a pretty strong Q3 and Q4 backlog in cold weather categories.
This, combined with a continuation of the improving retail environment in Europe (recent consumer confidence data in the region have been positive), gives high confidence in VFC's ability to reach or even exceed its revenue growth target.
At the same time, the margin story is likely to keep going, as VFC benefits from secular drivers: margin improvement at Timberland, revenue mix enhancement towards Outdoor and International segments, distribution mix improvement towards direct distribution channel.
On a longer term view, we remain confident in the group's brands' ability to gain share in developed economies (through notably store openings) and to exploit the huge market opportunity in Asia and LatAm (only 8% and 7% of group revenues respectively). A large acquisition could be an additional catalyst, as VFC has completed the integration and restructuring of Timberland and is back to a comfortable net debt/EBITDA of 0.4x.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050814:19
SYMBOL = PSEC
This stock is oversold after a recent sell-off and now trades at a significant discount to book value which is $10.68 per share.
The pullback is due to a slight earnings miss and a SEC request to consolidate on its balance sheet, any company for which it owns more than 50%.
These issues do not appear to be significant and are not likely to have a long-term impact on the company or its generous dividend yield.
This pullback in Prospect Capital is a buying opportunity for investors seeking yields of 13% and potential capital appreciation.
Prospect Capital Corporation (NASDAQ:PSEC) is a business development company or "BDC" which invests in a wide range of industries. This includes healthcare, financial services, energy, and manufacturing. This company recently announced financial results and disclosed a couple of minor issues (like an earnings miss), which have caused a meaningful pullback in the stock. Let's take a closer look at this high-yielding company and the reasons why the pullback is a solid buying opportunity:
As the chart above shows, this stock has experienced a sharp decline in the past few days from nearly $11 per share to about $10.20 per share. These shares are now at extremely oversold levels as the stock has a Relative Strength Index or "RSI" of just about 20. Stocks with an RSI of 30 or less are considered oversold and therefore due for a potential rebound. The share volume also indicates a possible "capitulation" level bottom since the stock traded nearly 22 million shares on May 7, which is more than four times the average trading volume for this stock. The oversold level of this stock and the high volume sell-off could be a sign that investors have overreacted to the recent news and financial results coming from this company.
Prospect Capital reported net investment income or "NII" of 31 cents a share, which barely missed the Capital IQ Consensus estimate of 32 cents a share. Total investment income increased by 58.3% to $190.32 million for the quarter which was close to analyst expectations of about $192 million, for the quarter. Furthermore, it was disclosed that the SEC has requested the company to consolidate on its balance sheet, any company that it holds more than a 50% interest. The earnings were barely a miss and the SEC request does not appear to be much more than a minor accounting change. Neither of these issues appear to have any long-term impact on the company or the stock, or the dividend. This is why this pullback is an ideal buying opportunity.
Potential downside risks:
There are some potential downside risks to consider which include the following: Business development companies tend to announce secondary offerings more frequently than other companies, especially when the share price exceeds net asset value. In order to limit this risk, I suggest that investors buy on pullbacks below book value or shortly after a secondary offering, or other dips as we see now. Some investors believe that rising interest rates may pose a potential downside risk, but most BDC's have a significant amount of floating rate securities and this means investment income can rise along with interest rates.
The buying opportunity:
This pullback appears to be a short-term buying opportunity because the long-term investment and yield potential remains strong. This stock usually trades for a premium to book value, but thanks to the recent sell-off, it can now be bought way below the book value of $10.68 per share. It's worth noting that Prospect Capital has an excellent long-term track record for paying dividends. CNBC's Jim Cramer has even blessed Prospect Capital in the past, due to its management and track record, he stated:
"I always thought it was a well-run outfit. It has that really high
yield, which is a red flag, because a lot of high yielders have been
trimming their yields. It is well run, though, and I'm going to bless
it. I've known them for years."
Prospect Capital pays a monthly dividend of 11.04 cents per share and that provides a yield of about 13%. Investors never have to wait long for the next dividend from Prospect Capital since it pays out every month. The stock will trade ex-dividend on May 28 and pay a dividend of 11.04 cents per share to shareholders of record on May 30, 2014.
From currently depressed levels, this stock also appears to have significant upside in terms of capital appreciation. In February, analysts at Wunderlich upgraded Prospect Capital shares to a buy and set a $12 price target. This implies capital appreciation potential of about 20%, and investors get paid a huge yield while waiting for a rebound.
Finally, it's worth noting that on March 20, 2014, John F. Barry, (an officer), purchased 100,000 shares at $10.86 each, in a transaction valued at $1,0860,000. That is a significant and recent insider buy when the stock was trading at much higher levels. I would not be surprised to see more insider buying reported soon thanks to the sharp pullback in the stock. Either way, with this stock trading below book value and with a yield of about 13%, it appears to be a bargain. Investors who take advantage of the pullback and buy this beaten-down stock now are likely to reap rewards in the future. For another recently beaten-down stock pick that looks like a bargain with 50% near-term rebound potential, read this article I wrote on a $2 jewelry stock.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050814:36
SYMBOL = GILD
Sovaldi sales will generate over $10 billion a year in free cash flow.
The earnings generated from sales of all of GILD products will continue to rise. Expect at least $7.5 per share in earnings by 2015.
The share price currently trades at a below market multiple with superior growth prospects.
The fall from grace of a former market darling can offer a conservative long term investor a low risk entry into a quality franchise. Periodically, a company will unveil a unique product that is well positioned to capitalize on an unmet need in the marketplace. That need or want can come in many forms such as the iPhone that was unveiled by Apple Computers (NASDAQ:AAPL) that directly led to AAPL becoming the largest company in the world based on market cap. The inevitable slowing down of sales growth coupled with the entry of new competitors into the field tarnished the luster of AAPL shares, leading to a greater than 50% fall from its all time high set in 2013 as the momentum players exited the shares. The exit by the momentum/high growth players offered the conservative patient investor a very attractive entry point in the $400-$450 range. Those who were fortunate enough to take advantage of this unjustified bargain have achieved market beating gains as the shares have rallied up close to $600 per share. With the above example in mind, I believe we are seeing a similar opportunity today in Gilead Sciences (NASDAQ:GILD) with its revolutionary Hepatitis C treatment Sovaldi.
In the first three months of its existence, Sovaldi has managed to generate sales in excess of $2 billion dollars which is simply quite outstanding. The chart above lists the revenue breakdown of all the products that GILD currently sells, notice how sales have basically doubled because of Sovaldi. The impact on earnings growth was even more pronounced with gains of 208% as compared to the similar year before quarter. Earnings for the year are expected to come in at $6.21 per share as there is a large unmet demand for Sovaldi.
With the above information in mind, why did the shares sell off in such a brutal fashion over the course of the last month? I suspect there is a fear that the drug actually works too well and there won't be any repeat "business". Sovaldi manages to "cure" Hepatitis C in roughly 95% of those treated after a 12 week course of therapy. The fear is those infected will rush in for treatment, generating a huge bump in revenue for GILD that won't unfortunately be sustained over a longer period of time. For example, Lipitor the cholesterol lowering agent originally introduced by Pfizer(NYSE:PFE) generated over $100 billion in revenue due to the fact that it was a chronic treatment requiring daily usage. I believe the fear is over stated as the demand for the drug will remain elevated for the next few years. The following excerpts from the recent conference call sum up why I believe the demand will stay elevated for the next few years for Sovaldi.
Since launch, approximately 30,000 patients have begun treatment for hepatitis C with Sovaldi. In fact, with an estimated 1.7 million diagnosed patients in the U.S. and around 400,000 under treated care, we have to take just a small fraction of those who can benefit from treatments in the future.
On the payer front, access to Sovaldi has been as we expected, with its formulary status consistent with our experience in HIV reimbursement. Most commercial, Part D and state Medicaid plans take full six months to review new drugs.
While Sovaldi has regulatory approval in the European Union, full pricing and reimbursement, is a country-by-country process with some countries completing that process more quickly than others. Today we have reimbursement in Germany, Austria, Sweden, Finland and to some extent France.
In France, after completing or completion of the temporary authorization for use or ATU program, but prior to completion of full reimbursement stages, we continue to provide Sovaldi to patients who have pre and post-liver transplant and also patients with advanced liver disease who have failed other HCV treatments or are interferon intolerant. This is in line with the ATU scope and will widen when full reimbursement is agreed.
In the U.K., the National Health Service in England has recently issued a statement confirming that they have approved the filing to Sovaldi for approximately 500 patients. Notably, this is funding pre-NICE approval and recognizes the urgent need for Sovaldi for sicker patients.
In the US roughly 30,000 patients have been treated, with an estimated 1.7 million being infected with Hepatitis C. Of those that are infected, roughly 25% are being treated which in my view demonstrates the staying power of the drug. There won't be a rush for immediate treatment as more than half of those infected aren't currently being treated for the disease. In Europe, we are seeing a similar pattern with the drug being reserved for the sicker patients. I believe the demand for Sovaldi will be stable for the rest of the decade allowing GILD to generate a tremendous amount of free cash flow. The free cash generated is the real opportunity offered by GILD.
Definition of 'Free Cash Flow - FCF'
A measure of financial performance calculated as operating cash flow minus capital expenditures. Free cash flow (NYSE:FCF) represents the cash that a company is able to generate after laying out the money required to maintain or expand its asset base. Free cash flow is important because it allows a company to pursue opportunities that enhance shareholder value. Without cash, it's tough to develop new products, make acquisitions, pay dividends and reduce debt.
Gilead is expected to generate free cash flow in excess of $10 billion in 2014 as compared to $3.4 billion for 2013. To say the least, Sovaldi is immensely profitable and has significantly added to the bottom line of GILD. The question becomes what will the company do with all the excess cash? Looking at the company's past history, the immediate answer is to repurchase shares and shrink the existing share count. GILD has managed to shrink their shares outstanding by 20% since 2005. GILD recently approved an additional $5 billion repurchase program that will run over the next 3 years. The following excerpt taken from GILD recent 10-Q summarizes the current shares repurchase authorization.
Share Repurchase Program
In May 2014, our Board of Directors authorized a repurchase of up to $5.00 billion of our common stock through open market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans, privately negotiated transactions or other means. This is in addition to a separate $5.00 billion buyback program announced in January 2011, which has approximately $2.90 billion remaining in the plan and is expected to be completed by September 2014. The new program expires three years after completion of the current repurchase program. We intend to use the additional authorization to repurchase shares opportunistically and to offset the dilution created by shares issued under employee stock plans.
GILD expects to purchase $2.9 billion worth of shares by September which will help put a floor under the share price. GILD is still being cautious with their outlook for Sovaldi as they have yet to issue full year guidance that includes it. The very fluid nature of the situation makes it difficult to model what earnings per share will eventually come in at which offers the unique opportunity before us.
Gild recently earned $1.48 per share with very limited usage of Sovaldi. I doubt it is a stretch to estimate they will earn roughly $6 per share in 2014. At a current share price of roughly $79 per share the shares are trading at a P/E of roughly 13 which is lower than the average market P/E. In my view the current price fails to accurately reflect GILD future prospects as Sovaldi is fully rolled out worldwide. I estimate Sovaldi sales to become rather annuity like with a ten year lifespan of at minimum $10 billion in sales per year. Sovaldi is quickly becoming the gold standard therapy and will be very difficult to dislodge from this position. I have noticed there are other products being tested to be used in combination with Sovaldi which underscores my confidence in Sovaldi's future. The fact that Sovaldi is patent protected through 2024, GILD has a claim to some of the revenue generated from a combination product. The timing of the combination products could extend the life of the revenue generated from Sovaldi as the patent on the combination products should expire after 2024.
The current sentiment in the biotech field is less than favorable hence the opportunity presented to us today. I expect GILD to conservatively generate earnings of roughly $7.5 per share in 2015 which can easily support a share price of $100 per share. I view the current negative sentiment in the industry as a gift similar to what was offered by AAPL last year and I have entered into a position at $73 per share. I expect to hold the shares for the long term to allow the Sovaldi phenomena to fully play out. Thanks for reading and I look forward to your comments.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050814:37
SYMBOL = MCD
McDonald's has not grown at all in 1Q 2014, with net income decrease of 5%.
McDonald's plans to double its store count in China to 4,000 by 2017.
Compared to competitors, MCD is attractively priced.
McDonald's (NYSE:MCD) is delivering horrible results lately, and competition from successful fast-casual players like Chipotle Mexican Grill (NYSE:CMG) as well as traditional fast-food competitors like Burger King (BKW) represents a big challenge for the company.
Is McDonald's an undervalued investment or a giant in trouble?
Disastrous First Quarter of 2014
Total consolidated revenues increased by an uninspiring 1%, to $1.6 billion, during the first quarter of 2014. Constant currency sales did marginally better with a 3% increase during the period, but global comparable-sales performance was quite weak, with an increase of only 0.5% versus the first quarter of 2013.
Operating income declined by 1% year-over-year, and earnings per share came in at $1.21, a decline of 4% versus the same quarter in the prior year, and lower than the $1.23 per share forecast on average by Wall Street analysts.
Performance in the U.S. was particularly weak, with a 1.7% decline in comparable sales during the quarter and a fall of 3% in operating income in the country. According to management, these results reflected:
negative comparable guest traffic amid challenging industry dynamics and severe winter weather.
Europe was marginally better: McDonald's reported an increase of 1.4% in comparable sales and a growth rate of 6% in operating income in the Continent.
CEO Don Thompson offered the following platitudes about the future of the company:
In today's dynamic global marketplace, our goal is to ensure that we are evolving to remain a relevant and trusted brand by serving great-tasting, high-quality, affordable food and creating memorable experiences with our brand. By leveraging a deeper understanding of what our customers want with the power of our business model, our investments in restaurant capabilities and modernization, and our hard-earned competitive advantages, we will grow McDonald's business and deliver enduring profitable growth over the long term. As we begin the second quarter, global comparable sales for the month of April are expected to be modestly positive.
Well, Don, the price of McDonald's has not moved since you took over, and the short interest in the company shot up 20.7% in April 2014.
In its most aggressive buildup in a decade, McDonald's says it'll spend up to $3 billion this year on 1,600 new restaurants worldwide. China will get one of the biggest shares. The burger chain will add 300 locations there, up from 250 last year, and quadruple the number in 2004. By year-end, the Oak Brook, Illinois-based company will have more than 2,000 restaurants in China, more than anywhere else except the U.S. and Japan. By the end of 2017, McDonald's plans to double the number of restaurants in China to 4,000.
To date, the company operates over 35,000 restaurants across 119 countries. There are nearly 14,000 McDonald's in the U.S., but the company's massive international operations remain the key to steady sales growth.
While U.S. is a saturated market for McDonald's, China's middle class is expanding like crazy. A report published by McKinsey & Co. in 2012, calculated that the number of people in China that earned between $17,000 and $35,000 would grow from only 6% of the population in 2010, to more than 50% of China's populace by 2020.
What exactly is McDonald's doing to reframe itself in China, where it's generally only found a lukewarm reception compared to its rival, Yum! Brands' (NYSE:YUM) division KFC? First and foremost, it's de-Westernizing its stores there.
Ten years ago, when China became a hotbed of growth for consumer-oriented American companies, the presumption was that the Chinese wanted a perfect re-creation of the typical U.S. eating and shopping experience. Now, however, U.S. companies have learned that there's a limit to how much Western culture a Chinese consumer wants delivered when inside a Western restaurant or retail establishment; there are still cultural aspects unique to China that are must-haves for anyone serving consumers there.
For McDonald's, that means remodels and new-builds that incorporate Chinese - and even provincial - flair, like hanging lights and "dynasty-era" architecture. It also means more food that's familiar to the locals. Spring rolls and rice are finally on the menu at most of China's McDonald's, and much of the focus has been turned from beef and towards chicken or pork; beef is rarely part of the typical Chinese diet.
It's not just the menu and the buildings' ambiance that McDonald's is re-tooling to attract China's burgeoning middle class, however. A great deal of thought has gone into how that middle class thinks, acts, and dines, and the end result is the installation of large, round tables that can seat ten. It's something none of its American units would do, because it would be waste of valuable floor space; we rarely eat as a party of ten, particularly at a fast-food restaurant. That's not the case in China, however, where extended families are more apt to eat together. The large, round tables facilitate socialization during mealtime, which is a lost art in the U.S.
Bottom Line for MCD Stock
As for the investability of MCD stock, while it's certainly disappointing that McDonald's remains befuddled by American consumers, it may be worth considering the possibility that the average American consumer may not be interested in Big Macs and McFlurrys and McCafes for reasons that go beyond the restaurants' abilities to deliver a decent customer experience. 
MCD stock has not moved since 2012, so it's no wonder that, dividend yield and P/E wise, it's a far more attractive buy than its peers. Personally, I would like to see the price below $90 before I start accumulating.
In an unquestionable sign of financial strength, the house of Ronald McDonald has raised its dividend each and every year since 1976. There is also some good news for April 2014: McDonald's Global Comps rose 1.2%; APMEA is up 2.9%.
Asia, particularly China, is a critical growth spot for McDonald's for the foreseeable future; while U.S. same-store sales were down 1.7% in the first quarter, same-store sales for the Asia-Pacific, Middle East, and Africa group were up 0.8% in Q1 2014. The numbers may feel small, but they underscore a very big trend that just may save the company's McBacon.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050815:00
SYMBOL = QUAD
Quad/Graphics grows its commercial printing business by buying out competitors.
Quad offers a 5.75% dividend return.
Quad's business and dividend would be in danger during a recession.
Quad/Graphics (NYSE:QUAD) calls itself a global provider of print and related multichannel solutions. It has about 24,000 employees with 70 plants in 8 countries. Ninety per cent of the company's revenue comes from the U.S., 6% is from Latin America and 4% is from Europe. Net sales have increased from $1.8 billion in 2009 to $4.8 billion in 2013.
QUAD is one of the consolidators of the commercial print portion of the printing industry where 400 printers have about 55% of the $41 billion U.S./Canadian market. The company has purchased Worldcolor, Transcon in Mexico and Vertis over the past few years. The company has just announced that it is purchasing Brown from Gruner + Jahr. This purchase should add another $350 million in revenues this year and be accretive to earnings.
Quad pays a dividend of $0.30 per quarter, which offers a yield of 5.75% at the current price of $21.00 per share. Considering that the earnings per share were only $0.53 last year, the dividend is extremely high and may have to be cut if earnings do not accelerate. The company maintains the cash flow from operations is adequate to maintain the dividend. The graphs below show that the cash flow from operations is growing, and at the same time, that cash to purchase other printing companies is coming from financing. (Graphs from TD Ameritrade)
Quarterly Cash flow charts from 2013 are shown below:
As the company expands rapidly by buying other printing companies, it consolidates these new operations and rationalizes production, which leads to high capital expenditures and high depreciation of assets. Depreciation, amortization and restructuring charges amounted to $436 million in 2013, which is extremely high for a company with a market cap just short of $1 billion.
This expansion has been increasing revenue and income. See the charts below:
QUAD just released its first quarter report for 2014 on May 6, 2014. The company reported net sales of $1.1 billion, which was down 2% when compared to the same quarter last year. Management reported that industry volume and pricing pressures had a negative impact on both total sales and profit margins. QUAD also noted that EBITDA margins had fallen from 10.1% in the first quarter of 2013 to 9.7% this quarter. This negative trend is a further extension of the EBITDA reduction from 13.8% in 2012 to 12% in 2013. It reported that cash flow for the quarter was a negative $13 million compared to a positive $93 million for the same quarter last year. However, because of lower interest and operating expenses, the company improved from a loss of $0.31 per share in 2013 to a loss of $0.19 this year.
The Street Ratings has a buy on QUAD, with a target price of $24.60 for the next 12 months. This Buy rating is largely based upon IBES consensus estimates of $1.46 earnings per share for 2014, and $1.83 per share for 2015. Ford Equity Research has a strong Buy on QUAD, projecting that it will strongly outperform the market over the next 6 to 12 months. Both of these ratings were issued before the current quarter's numbers were released.
The S&P does not rate the company, but has written on the outlook for the industry. The commercial printing business is facing a steady long-term structural decline due to the competition arising from the internet, ebooks and email delivery of its major products. This leads to excess industry capacity and strong price competition that tends to shrink operating margins. Companies are well aware of this, and many are turning their businesses to a cash-harvest mode. S&P expects continued consolidation of this highly-fragmented business aimed at achieving economies of scale.
This structural decline is visualized in the graphs QUAD provided in its presentation:
Finally, here is the guidance offered by the company for 2014:
QUAD is one of the major consolidators of the commercial printing business. Commercial printing is a business in secular decline that will likely go the way of the buggy whip over the next 100 years. QUAD is maintaining and growing its business by purchasing other businesses. It will likely continue growing its business over the next 10 years by buying up some companies and burying others competitively. The question remains as to how profitable QUAD can be with this strategy.
Management maintains that it can continue growing by this strategy and paying the dividend. I am convinced that the company can maintain the dividend and even possibly increase it a little if business continues to improve. However, QUAD would soon be required to stop the dividend in the event of a recession. Even a minor recession would pressure the cash flow of this company to the point where the dividend would have to be discontinued.
QUAD looks like it can be a short-term winner with a good dividend. However when the economy begins to swoon, this company will swoon faster and harder than the economy at large.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050815:21
SYMBOL = HPQ
The decline in the revenues was primarily because of the shrinking PC market.
Hewlett-Packard Co. is entering the 3D printing market this year, and could acquire a huge chunk in the 3D printing market quickly.
Currently, two relatively smaller companies, 3D Systems and Stratasys, are the dominant players in the 3D printing market.
According to Gartner, the 3D printing market will grow 62% in fiscal year 2014, reaching $669 million.
Company's Current Presentation
Hewlett-Packard Company (NYSE:HPQ) has been facing a decline in revenue for the past two years. The company generates revenue from a number of segments that are shown in the chart below. Almost one-third of the company's revenue is generated from three segments: 30 percent from Personal Systems, 24 percent from Enterprise Group, and 20 percent from Printing. The remaining 26 percent is contributed from the three other segments. The chart below explains the segment-wise dissemination of the proceeds from the sales of the company's products.
In the recently ended quarter, Q1 2014, the company managed to earn revenues of $28.2 billion. The company generated 3.1 percent less revenue in Q1 2014, because in Q1 2013, it generated $29.1 billion. However, in Q1 2013, the company earned $28.4 billion in revenue, which is 0.709 percent more than the current quarter's earnings.
Hewlett-Packard in the PC Market
According to IDC reports, worldwide personal computers shipments have been declining over the last eight quarters. The report says that worldwide PC shipments have declined almost 4.4 percent year-on-year, which is slightly better than the expected decline of 5.3 percent. HP managed to increase its worldwide PC shipments by 4.65 percent, compared to shipments of 11.99 million in the first quarter of 2013. Despite the shrinking PC market, following Lenovo (OTCPK:LNVGF) with 12.962 million shipments worldwide, HP succeeded in becoming second leader in the market with 12.557 million shipments worldwide. The following chart represents the market share of the top 5 companies of the PC market.
Data Source: IDC
Earlier last month, April 8th, 2014, Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) halted support for Windows XP, and a number of Windows XP consumers will have to upgrade their systems to stay in line with supported operating systems. This OS system movement is anticipated to improve PC sales. HP, who is still enjoying 17.1 percent of the worldwide the PC industry, is expected to show a positive shift in its margins.
HP Entering the 3D Printing Market
March 2014, HP CEO, Meg Whitman announced that the company is planning to enter the 3D printing space by the end of this fiscal year. According to IDC, HP is already dominant in the 2D printing industry, with 12.6 million shipments in Q4 2013 and 44.6 million shipments in fiscal year 2013. The market share of HP alone was 39.9 percent in fiscal year 2013. Following HP is Cannon (NYSE:CAJ), but compared to HP, its market share is 20.9 percent.
According to Gartner, an IT research firm, the end users spending on 3D printers totaled to $412 million, reflecting a 43% increase from $288 million in 2012. Consumer market spending was $87 million of the $412 million total, and $325 million was from enterprise spending. According to the research firm's projections, 2014 will report a 62 percent increase, with total spending reaching $669 million. This will include $536 million in enterprise spending and $133 million from consumer spending.
According to another research firm, Canalys, the 3D printing market is estimated to grow to $16.2 billion by 2018. The firm projected the sales of the 3D printing market would reach $3.8 billion in fiscal year 2014. This includes $1.3 billion in 3D printer sales and $2.8 billion from the proceeds of services and materials.
It is usually the rule of thumb that smaller companies come to new technology market later. HP has planned to take advantage of expiring 3D patients. Many of the 3D printing patents have expired, or will expire soon, so HP timed its entrance into the 3D printing market to save millions in patent expenses that can later be used by research and development to make the company's product more competitive and reliable. HP is a world-renowned brand, and this can be an advantage to help the company grab a major chunk of the 3D printing market. For now, the 3D printing market is detained by two companies: 3D Systems (NYSE:DDD) and Stratasys (NASDAQ:SSYS).
At HP's shareholder meeting, Whitman said that currently available 3D printing systems have two big challenges. First, they are too slow, and secondly, the printing quality is not as good as it should be. She also said that HP has solved the speed and quality issues found in the current 3D printing technology
HP's Stock Upgraded by Analysts
Brent Bracelin, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities, has upgraded HP's stock to outperform from sector perform. Moreover, for HP, the firm has set a target price of $37. Since 2004, Pacific Crest has had a neutral-to-negative prejudice towards HP because of the company's eroding core business and losses in market share. This is the first time since 2004 that Pacific Crest has upgraded HP to outperform.
Outperform rating assigned by Pacific Crest is because of "increasing confidence and improving visibility that HP can begin to deliver a sustainable profit recovery in (fiscal) 2014, which should build further momentum into (fiscal) 2015."
Concluding Remarks
It seems that HP's stock is currently undervalued, with a price-to-earnings ratio of 12.06 and compared to the industry price-to-earnings ratio of 16.69. Up until now, the 3D printing market is almost dominated by relatively small players. With the entrance of HP, not only will the industry benefit, but the company's margins will also be boosted. The 3D printing market is anticipated to grow rapidly in the coming years, and despite the declining PC market, HP has managed to increase its worldwide PC shipments by 4.56 percent. These two factors can have a significantly positive impact on both the top and bottom lines of the company.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050816:50
SYMBOL = JASO
JA Solar reported earnings early this morning, with EPS of 23c on revenues of $366m.
The stock trades at a discount compared to peers.
Options provide a way to invest in the stock at discounted rates. Warning: they are thinly traded.
JA Solar (NASDAQ:JASO) is currently one of my favorite picks in the solar industry. Not only does it make amongst the highest-wattage poly panels amongst its peers (315W 72 cell panel), some of which I have on my roof, it is also currently underestimated by analysts. Trina (NYSE:TSL), ReneSola (NYSE:SOL), Yingli (NYSE:YGE), Canadian Solar (NASDAQ:CSIQ), JinkoSolar (NYSE:JKS) are all currently at 310W or less. The 315W panel is also price-competitive with other panels in its class, making it cheaper per watt.
JA Solar reported earnings yesterday. It delivered 638MW of panels and cells combined (388MW modules and 250MW cells), a 44% jump from last quarter, still 4.4% below 2013 Q1, however. EPS of 23c on revenues of $366M handily beat analyst expectations of 6c and $331M
More importantly, JASO guided to deliveries of between 670 to 700MW in Q2 and between 2.7 and 2.9GW for the whole year. Also, cost reductions and improved margins are leading to higher-than-expected profits for the company.
For 2014, I expect JASO to have total revenues of at least $1.45 billion and EPS of a minimum of 1$. This is calculated using the mid-point of its annual guidance and assuming similar margins as Q1. However, I expect more margin improvements going forward, and will not be surprised at annual EPS of $1.2.
In addition, JASO has other things going for it, like very low debt levels compared to its peers, making it poised to survive longer term than any of its peers. This was also a deciding factor when I chose JASO panels. I wanted to pick a company that is more likely to survive the warranty period of the panels.
As evidenced from the above chart, JASO has been steadily improving earnings and has swung to a profit for the last two quarters.
Like other solar industry stocks, JASO has been extremely volatile, and I have been building my JASO stock steadily by diverting all my dividends into JASO in one account using the Scottrade FRIP program.
Generally, I prefer just to buy stocks, rather than deal with options. But right now, I'm almost completely invested, and JASO being very volatile, gives good opportunity to make money using options. For example, JASO Jan 2015 Put with a strike price of $10 trades between $2.10 and $2.35. Selling this Put presents an opportunity to either make $210-$235 in premium or acquire the stock at under $8, a more-than-20% discount to today. With a cash covered Put, this represents a greater-than-20% return. However, with the extreme volatility, it is possible that there might be one or more days in the year when the stock does go under $8. In this case, you have perfectly timed the market if the option is exercised. Another great option is the JASO Jan 2015 $8 Put.
I do not expect this opportunity to last very long as not only JASO, but other solar companies start reporting good results. Global PV demand is expected to rise significantly, as US, China and Japan are set for record deployments in 2014, and as JASO continues to beat earnings, the premium on those options will continue to fall as we approach Jan 2015.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050817:43
SYMBOL = AIG
AIG reported a mix of positive and negative performance during the first quarter of 2014.
AIG’s Property and Casualty business unit underwrote losses primarily due to high catastrophe loss claims during the quarter.
AIG’s Life and Retirement unit continued its growth momentum and saw a remarkable increase in assets under management leveraging on the demand of its products.
AIG may soon experience a turning point and is poised to focus on its core operation, insurance.
American International Group Inc. (NYSE:AIG) is a leading international insurance organization that serves customers in more than 130 countries. It has the most extensive property-casualty insurance network globally. The company recently reported its results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2014. While its property-casualty insurance segment portrayed sluggish performance, its life insurance segment produced a sensible performance and is expected to continue its robust performance in the coming quarters. This article will analyze the company's performance during the latest quarter and assess its future. By the end of this article, I will determine whether or not this stock should be considered for investment.
American International Group is regarded as the largest commercial insurer in the U.S. and Canada, however, it also serves individual and institutional customers through its vast insurance network. For the first quarter of 2014 the company reported a 10% lower operating income year over year as the recent quarter's operating income stood at $1.21 per share, down from $1.34 per share in the first quarter of 2013. Analysts were expecting an operating income of $1.07 per share for the quarter but the company managed to beat analysts' expectations by almost 13%. Net income for the quarter fell 27% year over year, down from $1.49 per share to $1.09 per share. Analysts were expecting better premiums on property and casualty insurance, but that was not the case, so the stock price fell 2.3% to $51.52 in afterhours trading. The following graph illustrates the segment wise contribution to AIG's pre-tax operating income. The trends show that year over year AIG Life and Retirement has become a more influential segment than the AIG Property Casualty segment. However, the Property and Casualty segment is still a major contributor to the company's bottom line, therefore both segments will be assessed based on their performance in the first quarter this year.
The Property-Casualty unit experienced a 2% decline in sales to $8.33 billion. At the commercial operations sales increased to $1.5 billion reflecting an increase of 1.9% whereas the consumer segment's sales declined 5.5%. During the quarter net premium earned declined 4% while net investment income declined 5% year over year. The unit experienced an underwriting loss of $97 million during the quarter, in contrast to the underwriting income of $232 million in the comparable quarter last year. Loss ratio is defined as the ratio of annual claims paid by an insurance company to the premiums received increased 3.8 points during the quarter. The loss ratio of the business unit is too high, standing at 67 times the earned premium that may be attributable to increased claims. Recently the U.S. met with a harsh winter season that resulted in roof collapses, slick roads and burst pipes so this may have increased the claims for the insurance company.
Acquisitions ratio is the ratio of net acquisitions to premiums earned and measures a company's operational efficiency in producing, underwriting, and administering its insurance business. This ratio has also risen by 0.2 points. The general operating expense ratio declined by a meager 0.1%, which is good for the company. Earlier this year the company had announced it would cut 3% of its staff and relocate some of the staff to lower cost areas. The results of these staff changes may be evident in the decreased expense ratio. The combined ratio, which is a measure for underwriting profits/loss stood at 101.2 during the quarter up from 97.3 in the same quarter a year earlier. A combined ratio of 100 represents breakeven, a lower ratio means profit while a higher ratio reflects loss. This ratio was adversely affected by the catastrophe losses during the quarter that have increased notably from $41 million in the first quarter of 2013 to $262 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Ignoring the effects of catastrophe losses gives a combined ratio of 97.3 that went up 0.1% from the normalized combined ratio a year earlier. This shows that the performance of the Property Casualty insurance unit was shadowed by high catastrophe losses. This suggests that onetime losses were responsible for the weak results of the segment and the segment can come up with robust profitability if the company gets more business, considering the potential risks and rewards in mind. For the sustainable growth of this unit the company is seriously focusing on operational efficiency, managing its expenses, and investing in technology.
Life Insurance and Retirement
AIG's Life and Retirement unit offers annuities, mutual funds, and insurance in the U.S. AIG also has a competitive advantage regarding the sales of retirement products because rivals such as MetLife Inc. (NYSE:MET) have scaled back in this regard. This segment of AIG showed continued growth momentum and earned a record pre-tax operating income of more than $1.4 billion during the quarter up 2% year over year. The segment's premiums and deposits increased remarkably by 28% during the quarter. Portfolio-based investment yield increased to 5.32%, up from 5.30% in the first quarter of 2013. Fee oriented products increased income while higher profitability was attributable to spread based products. Assets under management increased 9% year over year from $0.296 billion to $0.324 billion during the quarter. This represents the rising demand for AIG Life and Retirement's products. Higher assets under management will bode well for the segment's profitability if the interest rates rise. In that case the investment income will also rise and that will elevate the base investment yield, as the company will reinvest its maturing investments into high yield generating investment opportunities.
AIG - A More Focused Business
At the end of last year AIG had agreed to sell its plane-leasing business to AerCap Holdings NV (NYSE:AER) in a deal priced at $5 billion. This divestiture deal received regulatory approvals and thus soon AIG will sell its International Lease Finance Corporation. This divestiture will allow the company to focus on its core businesses, Property Casualty and Life and Retirement. AIG will thus become a more focused and sensible business.
AIG Life insurance is paying an enviable return to its shareholders through dividends, share buybacks, and stock price appreciation. During the first quarter the company paid a cash dividend of $1.7 billion from AIG Life and Retirement. The company is offering a dividend yield of 0.95 in an industry where 2.23 is a standard benchmark. However the company has more focus on share buybacks rather than dividends because it is a more feasible option to the company. Not only is the stock trading at a discount to the book value per share but also repurchasing the stocks will increase book value per share as well as earnings per share and lift the stock price. During the first quarter the company repurchased 17.4 million shares by spending $867 million. Under its current repurchase authorization $537 million remain for further buybacks. Over a one-year period the company reduced its share count by 20 million, down from 1.48 billion to 1.46 billion shares from the first quarter of 2013 to the first quarter of 2014. More buybacks should be expected to come because the company's stock is continually trading at a significant discount to its book value. Book value per share has increased 6% year over year to $71.77 during the first quarter. The stock price has also increased 18% year over year outperforming the price appreciation of the S&P 500 Index.
After experiencing tough operating conditions during the financial crisis AIG has become a more sensible organization, but there is still room for some improvement. AIG has tried to eliminate risks from its balance sheet but the recent quarter's performance was a little disappointing. The Property Casualty segment's performance left much to be desired but the Life and Retirement business was a star performer. It seems that this segment will continue delivering robust financial results in the coming quarters and years. With regards to the Property Casualty business, the company needs to take some steps to reduce the severe losses.
It seems that AIG is now at an inflection point and will soon start its journey back to the top of the hill. Therefore Investors should consider investing in this stock that is trading at a P/E multiple of 8.68 in an industry where the benchmark P/E stands at 11.66.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050818:19
SYMBOL = TRIP
The company's click-based advertising revenue increased by 16% year-on-year and accounted for 74% of total revenues in Q1.
Better quality leads have allowed TripAdvisor to increase its advertising rates.
The company's instant booking feature is expected to reach 100% of smartphone users in its most important markets by the end of this quarter.
TripAdvisor (NASDAQ:TRIP), the world's largest travel review company, posted revenues of $281 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2014. Click-based advertising revenue increased by 16% year-on-year and accounted for 74% of total revenues. The business benefited as TripAdvisor's meta-display platform witnessed an increase in pricing and conversion rates. We will talk about meta in detail in this article. [1]
Adjusted EBITDA growth also accelerated to 135% sequentially as total expenses decreased to 57% of revenue from 75%, primarily due to the timing of TripAdvisor's TV advertisements. The company began investing into new TV campaigns recently and therefore it expects to incur the bulk of its selling and marketing expenses for the year in Q2 and Q3.
Citing the positive developments that occurred in the first quarter, TripAdvisor raised its guidance for top-line growth for the year from mid-20s to high 20s to low 30s. However, the forecast does not incorporate any meaningful upside from future increases in pricing and conversion rates. It also does not include the effect that its new ad campaigns will have on the traffic. This means that revenues could increase beyond the management's expectations.
We are in the process of updating our $83 price estimate for TripAdvisor, based on the quarterly results that were recently announced.
Pricing and Conversion Improvement On Meta-Search Is Encouraging
Earlier, TripAdvisor's users had to click through to an advertiser's website in order to view hotel pricing and availability information. The meta platform allows users to do all the comparison-based shopping on TripAdvisor's website itself since it collates and displays this information from top advertisers. Although this has lowered the number of leads sent by TripAdvisor to its advertisers, the leads are more qualified and have better conversion rates, as travelers are now more likely to click on the advertiser's link for booking rather than just seeking information.
The better quality leads allowed TripAdvisor to increase its advertising rates. Despite this, the meta platform was unable to achieve revenue neutrality until Q3, as fewer leads were being sent to advertisers than before. Advertisers were wary of the transition to meta-display, and therefore, were conservative when bidding on the new platform. The feature approached revenue neutrality in December last year through a combination of higher ad pricing and better conversion rates. Pricing improved through Q1 2014 as competition among advertisers to gain visibility in the meta platform lifted bids, while conversion rates improved as more users returned to make purchases.
The increase in prices and conversion rates helped accelerate revenue per hotel shopper growth from -19% and -9% in Q3 and Q4 2013 respectively to +1% in Q1 2014. [1] We expect further acceleration as the meta platform grows in scale.
Direct Bookings Launched On Apps And Mobile Websites
Using TripAdvisor's app was cumbersome for users until October last year, as they had to click on advertisers' links to see details and complete the booking process. The company launched native apps for Android and iOS devices to reduce this friction. The re-launched apps allowed in-app navigation by keeping the booking experience restricted within TripAdvisor's app instead of launching new advertiser windows in a mobile browser. [2]
Although this enhanced the interface, users continued to struggle when they wanted to move back and forth between advertisers' and TripAdvisor's content. The problem was more prominent in smartphones than other devices due to the smaller size of the screen. Therefore, the company began taking direct bookings on its Android and iOS apps and its mobile site, this quarter. This new feature is called Instant Booking. It enhances the user's experience by completing the booking process on TripAdvisor itself. It handles all aspects of the booking process from selecting a room to inputting the personal and credit details, thus offering a frictionless booking experience. 
Instant booking is currently only available to 10% of the U.S. traffic. It is expected to reach 100% of the smartphone users in TripAdvisor's most important markets by the end of this quarter. The company is designing similar versions for desktops and tablets. We think that Instant Booking will help the company to improve smartphone monetization levels. According to the latest data available, TripAdvisor's smartphone monetization is less than 20% of that on desktops even though mobile traffic accounts for 47% of total traffic and is growing much faster than desktop traffic.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051300:50
SYMBOL = MU
Although Micron’s stock price has risen 148% in the last 52 weeks, it still has plenty of room to move up.
Micron will benefit from favorable market conditions for the DRAM and NAND memories for the long term.
Micron has an extremely low PEG ratio of 0.86.
Micron Technology Inc. (NASDAQ:MU) has been the best performer of all S&P 500 companies in the last 52 weeks; its stock price has risen 148% in that period, while the S&P 500 index has risen 17.4%, and the Nasdaq Composite Index has risen 20.06%. Since the beginning of the year, Micron's stock price has already risen 23.4%. Nevertheless, in my opinion, MU stock still has plenty of room to move up because it has compelling valuation metrics and strong earnings growth prospects, and because of favorable market conditions for the DRAM and NAND memories for the long term.
The company
Micron is the largest U.S. memory company and a leading global supplier of DRAM, NOR and NAND memory. The company provides memory solutions for computing, communications, consumer and industrial applications, and serves both wireless and embedded applications. Micron was founded in 1978 and is headquartered in Boise, Idaho.
Major Developments
According to Micron, the DRAM market is expected to grow in the 20%-30% range annually, and the NAND market is expected to grow in the 30%-40% range annually for the long term. These favorable market conditions will benefit Micron and should enable the company to continue to grow and to improve margins.
On April 24, SK Hynix, Inc. (OTC:HXSCL) on its earnings call said that it is not adding any new NAND Capacity - a big positive for SanDisk (NASDAQ:SNDK) and also for MU as it moves to improve NAND margins. Furthermore, on the same day, KLA-Tencor (NASDAQ:KLAC), a test and inspection equipment supplier to the semiconductor market, on its earnings call, delivered more confirmation that the memory market supply was slowing down. KLAC said "momentum in 3D-NAND has cooled" since its last earnings in January 2014. More capped NAND supply into 2H14 with Hynix and slowing 3D-NAND would be a significant positive for MU and for SNDK. On April 22, Inotera revised up its 1Q14 results owing to above seasonal DRAM pricing, favorable mix to enterprise DRAM, and disciplined supply. Micron has a 35% ownership of Inotera, and it purchases all of Inotera's output based on a discount to current market prices.
In July 2013, Micron completed its acquisition of the Japanese DRAM manufacturer Elpida, which filed for bankruptcy in February 2012 for about $2.0 billion. Micron also acquired Powerchip's 24% stake in Rexchip for about $330 million, giving MU an 89% position in Rexchip after including Elpida's 65% interest. In my opinion, these acquisitions are extremely favorable for Micron since the deals increased MU's capacity by about 45%, increased its exposure in mobile, and gave it more manufacturing flexibility among different memory technologies.
Valuation Metrics
The table below presents the valuation metrics of MU; the data were taken from Yahoo Finance and finviz.com.
Micron's valuation metrics are excellent; the trailing P/E is very low at 10.84, and the Enterprise Value/EBITDA ratio is exceptionally low at 7.67. According to Yahoo Finance, MU's next financial year forward P/E is very low at 8.83 and the average annual earnings growth estimates for the next 5 years is high at 10.25%; these give an extremely low PEG ratio of 0.86. Only Lam Research (NASDAQ:LRCX) and SNDK among S&P 500 tech stocks have a lower PEG ratio (see my recent articles about LRCX and SNDK). The PEG Ratio - price/earnings to growth ratio - is a widely used indicator of a stock's potential value. It is favored by many investors over the P/E ratio because it also accounts for growth. A lower PEG means that the stock is more undervalued.
Latest Quarter Results
On April 03, Micron reported its second-quarter fiscal 2014 financial results, which beat EPS expectations by $0.09 (11.8%) and beat on revenues. Revenues in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 were $4.11 billion and were 2 percent higher compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2014, and 98 percent higher compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2013. On a non-GAAP basis, net income attributable to Micron shareholders in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 was $989 million, or $0.85 per diluted share, compared to net income of $881 million, or $0.77 per diluted share, in the first quarter of fiscal 2014.
Competitors and Group Comparison
According to Micron, it faces intense competition in the semiconductor memory market from a number of companies, including Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. (OTC:SSNLF), SanDisk, Hynix, Spansion Inc. (NYSE:CODE), and Toshiba Corporation (OTCPK:TOSBF).
A comparison of key fundamental data between Micron and its main competitors is shown in the table below.
All the three companies have exceptional fundamentals.
Micron's Growth Rates parameters have been much better than its industry median, its sector 
Personally, I am using only fundamental analysis for my investment decisions. After many years of experience, and after having tried all kinds of decision making, including technical analysis, I have reached the conclusion that relying on fundamental information is giving me the highest return. Nevertheless, some investors are successfully using technical analysis to find the proper moment to start an investment (I am not talking about traders; my analysis is only for investors). The charts below give some technical analysis information.
The MU stock price is 7.88% above its 20-day simple moving average, 10.76% above its 50-day simple moving average and 32.10% above its 200-day simple moving average. That indicates a strong short-term, mid-term and long-term uptrend.
The weekly MACD histogram, a particularly valuable indicator by technicians, is negative at -0.02 and ascending, which is a strong bullish signal (a rising MACD histogram and crossing the zero line from below is considered an extremely bullish signal). The RSI oscillator is at 67.52 approaching overbought conditions.
Analyst Opinion
Analyst opinion is extremely divided among the thirty four analysts covering the stock; nine rate it as a strong buy, ten rate it as a buy, eleven rate it as a hold, two rate it as an underperform, and two analysts rate it as a sell.
TipRanks is a website that ranks analysts according to their performance. According to TipRanks, among the analysts covering MU stock, there are only fourteen analysts who have the four or five star rating, ten of them recommend the stock. On April 22, Needham & Company's analyst Rajvindra Gill reiterated a Buy rating and $40 price target on Micron Technology, saying Inotera's 1Q14 results bode well for the ongoing stability in the DRAM market. Gill commented:
"Early this morning, Inotera revised up its 1Q14 results owing to above seasonal DRAM pricing, favorable mix to enterprise DRAM, and disciplined supply. Recall that MU has a 35% ownership of Inotera, whereby MU purchases substantially all of Inotera's output based on a discount to current market prices. Net, Inotera's results substantiate our positive thesis on the DRAM market, namely: 1) favorable mix shift to higher margin DRAM products; 2) a moderation of long-term DRAM supply due to process node efficiencies; 3) stable-to-above seasonal ASPs and 4) fundamental shift in customer behavior to long-term agreements, rather than purchasing on spot market."
I consider Mr. Gill's analysis very valuable, since he has 5-Star rating from TipRanks for the accuracy of his previous calls.
As the largest U.S. memory company, Micron will benefit from favorable market conditions for the DRAM and NAND memories for the long term. Micron has compelling valuation metrics and strong earnings growth prospects; it has an extremely low PEG ratio of 0.86, only LRCX and SNDK among S&P 500 tech stocks have a lower PEG ratio. Furthermore, its two-year Sharpe ratio, which measures the reward-to-risk ratio, is very high at 2.32 while the S&P 500's two-year Sharpe ratio is at 0.995. All these factors bring me to the conclusion that MU stock is a buy right now.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051303:18
SYMBOL = INTC
PC industry is stabilizing and showing signs of a rebound.
Aggregate global IT spending is up and expected higher growth for 2014.
High demand for IT jobs signals higher spending on IT hardware in the future.
Can Intel stay on top of the PC market?
Intel (NASDAQ:INTC) is an industry giant with its name plastered on most computers and servers, owning a vast majority of the market of both consumer and server markets. Their main rival Advanced Micro Devices (NASDAQ:AMD) currently hold less than 5 % of the server market. With Intel being almost the entire PC and server market, you can use macroeconomic factors and industry data to forecast its growth in the coming years.
The increase in demand and hiring of IT professionals should have a direct effect to the demand of IT hardware. The demand in certain fields of IT are indicators of where the industry is shifting. The pace of IT job growth are signs of future demand for IT hardware.
PC Market Shipments Stabilizing
The PC shipment market had been retreating since 2012. It reached its peak in Q1 2013 and the negative growth had been decelerating ever since. Since Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) announced dropping support of Win XP, Q1 2014 did better than expected. Overall, 2014 will be another negative year for the PC market but the market is showing clear signs of stabilizing.
For most businesses, advertising and marketing are the first to get cut during tough economic conditions, then hiring stalls and maybe even layoffs. Eventually, IT gets reduced to save costs and increase margin. When the businesses pick back up, IT spending will increase to push productivity and efficiency. IT spending rapidly declined after the 2008. By 2012, IT spending was about 3.4% of GDP compared to 4.6% in 2000.
According to Credit Suisse, IT spending saw increases in 2013 and projected to pick up steam in 2014 to 3.2%. For 2015-16, growth is expected to be above 3.5% as the economy picks up. An increase in IT hardware shipments are expected in 2015 as demand for IT services pick up.
Health Industry, Government and Cloud Computing Create Jobs
The US healthcare system is transforming itself using Information Technology to be more productive and efficient. The government had initiated a $30 billion incentive program to roll out the Electronic Health Records, (EHR), initiative. Modern hospitals find it increasingly difficult to keep track of the large population of patients records using traditional paperwork -- it is slow and prone to mistakes or loss. The new initiative will provide hospitals up to $63,750 per professional depending on the program. EHR systems send and receive prescriptions lowering the amount of human errors. This new initiative created high demand for IT hardware and professionals across the nation as more hospitals are adopting EHR.
A study sponsored by Microsoft and made by IDC estimated that by 2030, cloud computing will be the key delivery method of computing. That process has already started years ago. As of today, about two-thirds of enterprises are planning, implementing, or using cloud computing. The study also found that almost all IT organizations are seeking cloud-enabling capabilities such as virtualization, performance monitoring, service management, and automation. The most prominent obstacle of initiation of cloud computing was the lack of candidates for cloud related IT positions.
For the next two decades, it is estimated that cloud related jobs will grow in demand at six times the rate of other IT jobs. Cloud related skills represent nearly all of the growth projection opportunities in IT worldwide. It is estimated to grow about 26% annually through 2015 according to IDC to 7 million jobs worldwide.
Overall, the IT sector is well above the average occupations in terms of growth. Information Security is a new rapidly growing field that is in high demand from the federal government and private industries as a whole. IT occupations is expected to grow 18% vs 11% average for all other occupations. Information Security are well above it at 37%. The rest of the world should see similar trends as nations bolster their defense against cyber warfare.
Looking ahead, we are at or near the bottom of the PC market. According to current statistics, PC industry's outlook should be positive by 2015 and continue to grow. IT professions are forecasted to be the fastest growing jobs in the market and specifically in the field of cloud computing. The server market is looking for more efficient ways to do cloud computing especially to complement mobile devices. Starting in 2015, we will start to see more of micro servers in high density platforms. Most likely, we will see massive growth in ARM servers in high density, high efficiency platforms.
Intel should benefit from the rebound of the PC market. However, the fight for growth is in cloud computing. How much growth Intel will see depends on how fast the economy, more specifically the education systems, can crank out more graduates in the cloud computing field. While Intel doesn't have any problem competing with AMD in the current PC and server market, AMD seems to at least temporarily have the upper hand with microservers. AMD's strategic acquisition of SeaMicro in 2012 and contract with Verizon (NYSE:VZ) in 2013 is part of their growth plan in the server market. They will also beat Intel to providing an ARM server chip which will launch late this year or next year.
I am very confident Intel will eventually catch up and surpass AMD with their microserver platform. Intel can simply outspend AMD in R&D and marketing. It's a big advantage when your net income far exceeds your closest competitor's revenue. They are also far ahead of any competitor when it comes to production technology from their fabs. Intel have been selling 20nm CPUs while AMD is still stuck on 28nm. I don't think Intel will miss out on cloud computing like they missed out on mobile after rejecting Apple in making chips for their first iPhone.
From an investor perspective, both Intel and AMD are good investments. Intel will eventually take most of microserver market even if AMD beats them to market with their APU and ARM server chips. You have to decide if you want maximum gains or less volatility. Investing in AMD will be very volatile because they have so little market share. Taking a small amount of market share from Intel could double their server revenue. While Intel taking half of AMD's share wouldn't make much of a difference. Intel would count more on defending their market share while capitalizing on aggregate market growth. For those looking for maximum gains and willing to put up with volatility, I recommend AMD as an investment for the next 3 years. For those looking for long term growth and steady dividends, then Intel is hard to beat.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051306:14
SYMBOL = FTR
Company progressing in efforts to strengthen subscriber base and improve ARPU.
FTR’s core business set to benefit from acquisition of T’s wireline assets.
Analysts expecting company to grow by 13% over next five years.
I reaffirm my "bullish" stance on Frontier Communications (NASDAQ:FTR). The company reported mixed results for 1Q2014, but in the long term, its performance is likely to be positively affected by a controlled cost approach and the acquisition of AT&T (NYSE:T)'s wireline assets in Connecticut. I believe FTR has been taking the right measures to strengthen its subscriber base and support its revenues by focusing on its core business operations. Also, the company offers a high dividend yield of 6.6%, which is supported by its healthy cash flows; the company's cash flows are likely to further improve as a result of T's wireline assets acquisitions. Moreover, the stock offers a potential price appreciation of 15% based on my price target of $7, as shown below.
FTR has long been focused on growing its broadband customer base in a highly competitive telecom sector by improving the quality of broadband services, in terms of both availability and speed, through simplified pricing policies. In the recent quarter, the company marked the 5th consecutive quarter of strong broadband momentum, with 37,200 net broadband additions in 1Q2014. Moreover, the company was successful in increasing its share in 91% of its markets being covered in the recent first quarter.
The broadband subscriber additions were positively affected by better speed and service quality. I believe that in the coming quarters, further deployment of broadband services to rural areas will hike up the subscriber momentum of FTR. The following chart shows FTR's net broadband subscriber additions in recent quarters.
Despite the fact that FTR experienced positive subscriber momentum in the recent quarter, total revenues were down 4.3%, negatively affected by lower CPE sales, carrier dispute settlements and wireless backhaul concerns. However, I believe the company, with its focused core business approach, will be able to moderate the revenue decline and outperform its peers. The recent price increase for Simply Broadband product from $29.99 to $34.99, network speed enhancements and higher costumer migration to higher broadband speed will portend well for overall revenue and ARPU growth for FTR in coming quarters. The following charts show the improvement in residential and business ARPU for FTR in 1Q2014 as compared to 1Q2013.
Margins to Improve
As the recent quarter's revenue base struggled despite the momentum in subscriber base, adjusted EPS for the quarter came out to be $0.05 flat year-on-year. I continue to believe that the acquisition of T's Connecticut wireline assets, which is likely to be completed in 2H2014, will help the company strengthen its wireline operations; FTR will benefit from expected annual synergies of $200 million, once the network integration is completed. Also, the acquisition will strengthen the company's core business operations and cash flows.
The company did experience a drop in EBITDA margin in the recent quarter, due to weather issues and payroll taxed; however, I believe the company will improve its margins in coming quarters due to cost control measures and expected synergies. The company currently has the highest EBITDA margin of 45% in comparison to CenturyLink's (NYSE:CTL) and Windstream's (NASDAQ:WIN) EBITDA margins of approximately 40% and 42%, respectively. The following chart shows the EBITDA margins trend for FTR.
The company offers a strong dividend yield of 6.6%, backed by its solid free cash flow generation. The company has been consistently paying dividends; last week, FTR declared a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share, flat quarter-on-quarter. The dividend is payable on 30th June 2014. FTR currently has a low dividend payout ratio of 43%, which indicates that the company has the option to increase its dividends by expanding the payout ratio. The company's cash flow base is further likely to improve as a result of T's wireline asset acquisition, as the assets have solid cash flow generation and they remain of high quality. The following chart shows the healthy comparison between FTR's cash flows and dividends.
The company's healthy balance sheet is another positive. FTR has a debt to equity of 2x, in comparison to WIN's debt to equity of 10x. I believe the company's financial strength remains healthy and the company will not have any issues in repaying long-term debt in the near term, as there are no significant debt maturities in the years ahead. The following chart shows FTR's debt maturity profile.
I have used cost of equity 7.6%, after tax cost of debt 4.5%, WACC 6% and a nominal growth rate of 2.5% in my price target calculations. Based on my price target calculations, the stock offers a potential price appreciation of 15%.
FTR has been making decent progress with its efforts to strengthen its subscriber base and improve ARPU, despite the intense competition and secular changes in the industry. The acquisition of T's wireline assets will not only help FTR strengthen its core business, but will also improve the company's cash flow base and result in cost synergies. Analysts are also expecting a robust next five years growth rate of 13%. Also, the stock remains an attractive investment option for dividend-seeking investors, as it offers a high dividend yield of 6.6%. Moreover, the stock offers a potential price appreciation of 15%, based on my price target of $7. Due to the above-mentioned factors, I am bullish on the stock.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051306:31
SYMBOL = AMD
The expected growth in cloud computing will result in substantial growth in the server processors segment of the company.
The technological advantage of the company will allow it to make solid inroads in the growing cloud computing segment.
AMD's focus on high-margin, high-growth areas will enhance its profitability over the next 2-3 years and stock price will rise considerably.
Cloud computing has become increasingly popular over the last few years and the benefits of cloud computing are making it a necessity for businesses as well as individuals. However, the setup requires hyper-scale data centers in order to perform the operations swiftly, which creates an opportunity for server manufacturers. Advanced Micro Devices (NASDAQ:AMD) is the world's second largest supplier of x86 architecture microprocessors. The company recently announced its future plans regarding the first ever 64-bit ARM Core Server series. The company also has a partnership deal with ARM Holdings (NASDAQ:ARMH) that is intended to give the company an advantage over rivals like Intel (NASDAQ:INTC) and Nvidia (NASDAQ:NVDA). Moreover, the new server series will prove to be a game changer in the server industry and holds strong growth potential in the coming years.
In the semiconductor warfare, AMD wants to be more than just an alternative to Intel - the company wants to lead the server industry as 2014 shapes up to be a pilot year for hyper-scale servers, mostly used in cloud computing. As mentioned earlier, the cloud computing segment has experienced huge growth over the last few years, and now the world's biggest technology giants are moving towards it. Hewlett-Packard (NYSE:HPQ) is also investing over $1 billion in open source cloud computing over the next two years. Similarly, Cisco Systems (NASDAQ:CSCO) has been trying to increase its footprint in the cloud computing segment and the company will spend around $1 billion over the next two years.
AMD graphics segment has gained some serious momentum over the last few quarters and now with the upcoming revival of its core microprocessor business, the growth is more visible over the next few years. AMD recently disclosed its near and medium-term plans regarding its future computing solutions. The company, after working more than two years on its "Skybridge" technology, finally pulled the curtains on its "ambidextrous architecture."
Moving on to the technical side, Project Skybridge combines the world's two most popular processor architectures: x86 and ARM. The 64-bit ARM hybrid server processor holds a design framework, which features a new family of 20 nanometer Accelerated Processing Units [APUs] and System-on-a-chip [SOCs] and is expected to be the world's first pin-compatible ARM and x86 processors. The company claimed that it will have 2-4 times the performance of its Opteron X-Series, which was the first server chip to use AMD's APU architecture, with improvements in compute per watt.
The company also publicly demonstrated for the first time its 64-bit ARM based Opteron A-series processor, codenamed Seattle, running a Linux environment derived from the Fedora Project. Fedora Project is a Red Hat sponsored, community driven Linux distribution, providing a familiar, enterprise class operating environment to developers and IT administrators worldwide. Due to this Fedora-Project based Linux environment, companies could transform ARM-based servers without the need to integrate entirely new tools and software platforms to their IT environments. This demonstration represented a significant step towards the expansion of ultra-efficient 64-bit ARM processors within the data centers.
Moreover, depending on the complex computing needs, the company will also offer 8 core and then 16 core systems on a chip with 64GB DRAM support, which will boost its performance substantially. This new technology will hit the market in 2015 with Puma+ APUs. The motivation of AMD behind offering both ARM and x86 designs is pretty simple: increasing the market for ARM, which is expected to grow more than $85 billion by 2017. Also, the company management projected that by 2015, 50% of the company's revenues will come from such "high growth" segments.
The stabilizing PC and the growing gaming and GPU market have enabled AMD to widen its focus towards the high margin server industry. Server industry has seen a substantial growth in the past few years due to increased focus towards cloud computing. With the solid growth in its graphics segment and the expected growth from the server processors; we believe AMD is well positioned to grow over the next few years. The focus on the high-margin, rapidly growing segments will allow the company to enhance its profitability, which should result in a considerable jump in the stock price over the next 2-3 years.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051307:27
SYMBOL = MSFT
Nadella's "new" Microsoft has the confidence of both investors and consumers behind it.
Cloud, mobile, and Xbox will be the catalysts for continued growth for Microsoft.
$45 should be the next stop for MSFT, and it should be able to get there before year's end.
It hasn't been that long yet, but I continue to be impressed with Satya Nadella's "new" Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT).
Aside from giving the company an entirely new look and feel from when Mr. Ballmer was at the helm, some of the initiatives that Mr. Nadella has already implemented seem to be paying immediate dividends for the company.
Investors seem to agree with me, as well - there's definitely been an infusion of confidence in the company's stock since Mr. Nadella has come in.
Microsoft's TechEd event held this week has done well to reaffirm what Nadella has already told us: Microsoft is going to be a company that is focused on cloud and mobile.
Office iPad app downloads have hit 27M in 5 weeks, Microsoft exec Julia White stated at the company's TechEd conference. The software giant previously announced downloads for the long-anticipated and generally well-reviewed apps topped 12M in a week.
Microsoft is also rolling out several new features for Azure for the second time this spring (previous). Among them is ExpressRoute, a solution that (via service provider partnerships) allows Azure servers to directly connect with enterprise servers without touching the public Internet.
ExpressRoute yields improved performance for hybrid cloud deployments - Microsoft has been trying to use make strong hybrid cloud a differentiator relative to Amazon Web Services (more focused on public cloud services).
Also announced: 1) An Azure anti-malware solution for cloud services and virtual machines. 2) New encryption, data loss prevention, and disaster recovery options. 3) A simplified cloud storage solution that allows multiple virtual machines to share the same file.
Microsoft's Azure revenue rose 150% Y/Y in the March quarter, but the company hasn't given a specific sales figure. Synergy Research recently declared Azure to be "pulling away" from other rivals chasing Amazon, but its estimated sub-10% share remains well below Amazon's ~30% share for now.
The fruits of Nadella's open minded thinking are already visible in the amount of Office iPad app downloads that the company has disclosed. This would never have taken place with Ballmer at the helm and arguably this is exactly what Microsoft needs: a new perspective, open-mindedness, and a bit what could be considered "outside the box" thinking - by Microsoft's terms, at least.
And, while Azure doesn't have "blowout" momentum behind it yet, Microsoft is focusing its efforts in the right direction with cloud. The company is out ahead of the adoption curve and will remain there as long as they can continue to execute.
Additionally, I'm loving the fact that Microsoft is now finally looking to use Xbox as an avenue into monetizing consumer's living rooms. I had been writing about this for the past year or so, claiming that the Xbox could essentially be the company's secret weapon:
The one opportunity that I always thought Microsoft had in the ecosystem area, however, was to leverage its Xbox. Xbox is, essentially, an easy way for Microsoft to find its way into your living room, if it's not already there. Once there, why make consumers go out and buy a set top box, too? Why can't the Xbox just play quarterback for your home ecosystem? I've been harping on this point for the better part of the last year, my readers know.
Microsoft is coming off of an earnings report issued just weeks ago that beat on both lines, and did well to impress me enough to open a long position in the company through ITM calls.
Further, the company's balance sheet is a gem, with tons of equity in the company and billions in cash that the company continues to return to shareholders. Microsoft could be a case study in how to build a foundation of stability to run your company off of.
The target price that I continue to look for with my Microsoft position is $45. If the company continues through this quarter in the fashion that it has so far, and the macro market indices continue to hold up, I think we could see $45 before year's end.
I continue to be bullish on Microsoft for the long term, as well, and hold my position accordingly.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051308:18
SYMBOL = SODA
Soda maker kits sales from Q4 2013 linger into Q1 2014.
United States soda maker kit sales will decline in Q1 vs. the same period a year ago.
Partnerships remain in abundance for SodaStream.
SodaStream International (NASDAQ:SODA) is due to report Q1 2014 earnings results on Wednesday May 14th ahead of the opening bell. These results come on the heels of a particularly weak Q4 2013 earnings report and tempered guidance for FY14. During the final quarter of FY13, the company sold a record number of products which included the sale of 1.5mm soda maker kits. Soda maker kit sales grew nearly 40% during the 4th quarter, far more than what had been expected by the analysts covering SodaStream. Much of these soda maker unit sales came with a heavy discount, directly impacting SodaStream's profit margins which are evidenced in its Q4 2013 filing. With this record soda maker unit sales occurring in the quarter, there is plenty of overhang in the United States retail sales channel that needs to be worked off in the subsequent quarters. This has resulted in a steep reduction in orders for soda maker kits during the quarter by the retailers. With this understanding, it is clear to see why earnings estimates are expected to show a sharp decline year-over-year in the first half of FY14. Let's take a look at analysts' estimates for top and bottom line:
As investors can clearly see, in the same period a year ago, SodaStream earned $.57 per share and the company is only expected to earn $.01 per share in Q1 this year. Much of this expected earnings decline is due to slowing sales in the United States. Retailers in the United States suffered through an abnormally weakened 4th quarter holiday sales season causing retailers to maintain inventory of product that didn't sell during the season. This inventory overhang of machines highlights the weaker than usual replenishment cycle that normally occurs in the 1st quarter of the fiscal year.
During Q1 in the United States, retailers faced a harsh winter climate that forced an abundance of store closures, directly impacting total sales during the quarter. An example of this occurrence was communicated in Bed Bath & Beyond's (NASDAQ:BBBY) most recent quarterly results which outlined the company's poor sales performance. The company noted on its conference call the following:
"As we discussed in our press release on March 7, 2014, we estimated our fourth quarter comp store sales were negatively impacted by approximately 2% to 2.5% due to the disruptive weather which resulted in many instances a full or partial days of store closings."
Bed Bath and Beyond gave quantitative details on store closures on March 7th as follows:
"The impact of the disruptive weather included 464 times a store was closed for a full day and 1,923 times that a store was closed for a partial day. For the fiscal quarter, the estimated resulting impact due to the disruptive weather on comparable store sales was in the range of 2.0% to 2.5%."
Unfortunately, Bed Bath & Beyond was not alone in its store closures during the 1st quarter of 2014 as Target (NYSE:TGT), Wal-Mart (NYSE:WMT), Kohl's (NYSE:KSS), Costco (NASDAQ:COST) and a host of other retailers were forced to close their doors for unspecified periods of time during the harsh winter months. Undoubtedly, these "non-selling" days hurt vendors' sales such as SodaStream and have impacted SodaStream's Americas sales during the 1st quarter.
Given the aforementioned headwinds in the Americas business, currently constituting greater than 32% of total sales for SodaStream International, analyst expectations for the quarter and full year are represented in the share price performance currently. The heavily dampened down expectations, coupled with SodaStream's guidance of roughly 3% net income growth and 15% revenue growth for FY14, have resulted in severe underperformance of the firm's share price thus far in FY14.
As mentioned previously, SodaStream discounted a great number of soda maker kits during the 4th quarter of 2013. Many of these units were shipped into the Americas and resulted in the contraction of gross margins. Going forward, any promotional sales that impact gross margins and result in less than 35% profit margin will require the approving signature of SodaStream's CEO Daniel Birnbaum.
Expansion
During the 1st quarter, there was little retail expansion which took place at SodaStream as the company began to focus on the mass production for its upcoming "Play" soda maker launch. The Play soda maker will hit retail shelves during the month of June in several markets including Israel, Italy, United States, United Kingdom, Denmark, France, Germany and Australia to name a few.
The Japanese market showed the strongest expansion last year as the region grew from 500 points of retail sale to greater than 1,500 points of retail sale. SodaStream aims at continual retail growth in the region this year.
In Canada, SodaStream's Canadian sales grew by roughly 100% last year. SodaStream's household penetration rate (HPR) in Canada is roughly 2.3% and ahead of SodaStream's U.S. household penetration rate. SodaStream has plans to enter major retail grocers in Canada during the 2nd quarter.
Australia continues to produce increasing sales for SodaStream. Australia is a more mature market for the firm and currently has issues keeping up with demand for CO2 in the region. During the quarter, many retailers noted out-of-stock levels for CO2 which may have impacted sales during the quarter. Despite this operational issue related to CO2, SodaStream added new points of retail sales during the quarter via JB HI-FI Home.
In the United States, SodaStream is looking to continue building its user base with an eye on entering the grocery and drug channel more deeply in 2014. Capital Ladder believes that another regional grocery partnership could include Shop Rite in the northeast corridor of the United States. As it pertains to the DIY retail segment, the company has inked a deal with Home Depot to begin distribution of SodaStream CO2 products to coincide with sales of Home Depot's Samsung Sparkling refrigerator.
SodaStream's major expansion objectives remain aligned with Mexico and India for the full year. During the month of April, SodaStream executives visited Mexico for their final meetings with distributors and retailers in the region. Additionally, the company has commenced incremental sales in India via Snapdeal.com as the company continues to build out its infrastructure and retail partners in this region.
Product Line Expansion
During the 2nd quarter of 2014, SodaStream will launch V8, Stevia and Free flavors in various markets. As health concerns related to sodas continue to dominate the category, SodaStream will embrace these concerns with its Stevia and Free flavor line-up of products.
Free from artificial sweeteners, flavors, colors and preservatives, SodaStream Free is a range of fruit flavored syrup concentrates designed for making lightly flavored sparkling beverages at home and contains a fraction of the calories and sugar of other regular soft drinks.
SodaStream Free joins a growing trend in recent years of offering consumers a broader and more mature range of sparkling drinks. This trend includes flavored bottled waters, sparkling juices, organic infusions and flavored teas; all lightly sweetened alternatives to highly sweetened sodas that generally appeal more to children and teens than to adults.
SodaStream has developed six new delicious flavors that deliver a natural, low calorie sparkling drink that caters to every taste. The range includes Kiwi-Pear, Passion-Mango, Cranberry-Raspberry, Apple-Peach, Lychee-Green Tea and Fresh Bitter Lemon, ideal for consumers looking to enjoy a refreshing, lightly sweetened drink. In the US, those products have been launched as part of co-branding partnership with Cooking Light, the leading epicurean brand positioned where great food meets good health, and have initially been launched in Passionfruit-Mango and Kiwi-Pear flavors.
V8 flavors recently launched in the United States at Bed Bath & Beyond during the month of April. V8 should see additional retail distribution in the 2nd quarter. SodaCaps also increased distribution with new points of sale at Wegmans and Target during the months of April and May.
The SodaStream Play will begin to see retail distribution during the month of June in various markets. The product has been suggested to retail for $89.99 and eventually eliminate soda maker models such as the Genesis and Jet by late 2015. The SodaStream Play was developed to accommodate for the 130 and 60 liter CO2 cylinders.
Competition, Partnerships and Speculation
SodaStream continues to witness great speculation around its business and operations and this will likely persist through much of the year and until greater competition presents itself in the market place for which to draw comparisons. Rumors of buyouts and/or equity stakes in the company have surfaced on two occasions during the 1st quarter of 2014 and after last year's rumored Pepsi buyout bid. The rumors surfaced in the Israeli publications, Globes and Calcalist. Neither report has been confirmed or denied by any named parties within the reported publications. Starbucks (NASDAQ:SBUX), Dr. Pepper Snapple Group (NYSE:DPS) and PepsiCo (NYSE:PEP) are all rumored to be party for discussions to acquire an equity stake in SodaStream. The rumored equity stakes are quantified between 10 and 16 percent of SodaStream.
In recent years, SodaStream has compiled a plethora of licensed partnerships for its hardware technology and its flavored syrups. The company has offered analysts the understanding that it will continue to grow its portfolio of licensed partners in the system and has been in discussions with a variety of beverage producers in both the U.S. and European markets.
In the North American market, SodaStream has a variety of fruit flavored sparkling beverage partnerships including Kraft Foods (NASDAQ:KRFT), Campbells (NYSE:CPB) and Ocean Spray. Recently, the company has partnered with Sunny D and Skinny Girl. Products from the latter two partnerships should reach store shelves before year's end. Going forward in North American markets, the company could seek additional partnerships for other flavor categories including teas, energy drinks and coconut water, which are seeing rapid year-over-year sales growth in a very young category. It is often overlooked that SodaStream's newly formed partnership with Skinny Girl has an unrelated tie to Arizona Tea. Arizona Tea produces and distributes the Skinny Girl Sparklers line of products which recently launched in New York. The Skinny Girl tie up with Arizona Tea has the potential to produce a partnership between SodaStream and Arizona Tea in the future given the natural partnership extensions. Arizona Iced Tea is the #1 selling ready-to-drink tea brand in the United States.
SodaStream has established its objective to solidify flavor partnerships outside of the United States going forward as it attempts to regionalize its products to suite market taste demographics in order to maximize sales potential. An example of this defined objective is evidenced in the company's recently announced partnership with Del Monte Foods. With hundreds of European beverage partnerships available to the company, it is more a matter of choosing a reputable and widely adopted brand to partner with than limited partnerships available to SodaStream.
Of course, while a great many partnerships exist for SodaStream to partake in, one name is consistently disregarded in the conversation and that is Nestle (OTCPK:NSRGY). With its Swiss origin and global distribution network, Nestle would make an ideal partner for SodaStream. In 2011, Nestlé was listed No. 1 in the Fortune Global 500 as the world's most profitable corporation. With a market capitalization of $233 billion, Nestlé ranked No. 9 in the FT Global 500 2013.
When it comes to sparkling bottled water, Nestle Waters is number one in the world. The company has four major brands in this category, namely Perrier, San Pellegrino, Poland Spring and Arrowhead, which together account for over 30% of the overall sparkling water volumes. However, Nestle Waters' market share has decreased by nearly 15% from 2011 owing to small brands and new entrants. In the U.S., Sparkling ICE is the largest individual brand in carbonated water with 21% of the overall sales in FY2013. Sparkling ICE's market share increased by nearly 10% year on year during this period. LaCroix, Topo Chico and Cascade Ice water are other brands which together constitute ~11% of this market. If Nestle is to retrieve some of its lost market share in recent years, it may look for acquisitions or partnerships in the near future. An equity stake or partnership with SodaStream would be the ideal way for Nestle to address their shrinking market share going forward. With SodaStream's unbeatable cost advantage for the consumer, Nestle will find it not only hard to compete with other sparkling water companies, but with SodaStream most of all.
The 1st quarter of 2014 will provide investors with some underwhelming results from the earnings and soda maker kit sales side of the equation. With a larger global installed base coming into the quarter, it remains to be seen whether or not the company can beat analysts' estimates for the quarter under the premise of increased consumable sales. Our full scale SodaStream Q1 Earnings Preview has greater details on sales, distribution, quarterly sell-in and sell-through and retail partnerships.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051308:38
SYMBOL = FB
After years of lurking around the periphery of China and visits by its top executives to the country, social networking (SNS) giant Facebook (NASDAQ:FB) is preparing to dip its toe into the massive market with plans to open a sales office in Beijing. That move raises the bigger question of whether the world’s biggest SNS company is planning to open a China-based service anytime soon, which has always been part of its long-term strategy. The answer is that Facebook will almost certainly use the new Beijing office to work towards a formal China site, though such an effort could take at least a year to yield results.
Facebook has always said it wants to open a service in China, and founder Mark Zuckerberg has made several trips to the country to explore his options. More recently, Facebook’s Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg also traveled to China in September, where she met with the head of the government agency that oversees the Internet in China. According to Facebook, Sandberg discussed the important role that Facebook plays in helping Chinese companies export their goods and services to customers outside the country.
Following those talks, media are now reporting that Facebook is taking formal steps to open an office in Beijing. (English article) The move could see Facebook open the office within a year, marking the first time it has had employees formally based in the country. People in China will know that Facebook has been inaccessible in the country since 2009, though the service reportedly has hundreds of thousands of users who access its site using software designed to circumvent the so-called Great Fire Wall of China.
Facebook didn’t directly confirm that it is looking for an office in Beijing, though it strongly implied it was moving in that direction by saying it “may consider having a sales office in China in the future.” Facebook already sells advertisements to Chinese customers using its Hong Kong sales office as a base, but is reportedly considering the move into China due to the rapid expansion of that part of its business.
This kind of expansion certainly isn’t unique to Facebook, and looks somewhat similar to what leading search engine Google (NASDAQ:GOOG) (NASDAQ:GOOGL) has done. Google made a high profile exit from the China search market in 2010 due to disagreements over Beijing’s censorship policies. But it continues to host a sizable operation in the country that includes a major team to handle local advertising sales.
The big difference in that case is that Google has said it can’t operate a search business in China due to the country’s strict censorship rules. Facebook has acknowledged the complexities of operating a website in China, in a reference to those rules. But it has also said repeatedly that it aims to be the world’s biggest SNS company, and that China — as the world’s largest Internet market — is an important part of that equation.
So, what are we likely to see from Facebook in China over the next year? Sandberg’s visit last fall means the company is almost certainly moving forward aggressively on this latest push to open a sales office, and I expect we could see a low-key but official opening in the next 2-3 months. An actual website will take a little longer, and will almost certainly have to come in the form of a separate service through a joint venture with a local partner. I would expect to see that happen perhaps as soon as the middle of next year, potentially using a variation of the company’s recently acquired WhatsApp mobile instant messaging platform as the entry vehicle.
Bottom line: Facebook is likely to open its first formal China presence in the next 2-3 months as a Beijing sales office, which will be followed by an SNS joint venture in the market as soon as mid 2015.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051310:14
SYMBOL = MTB
MTB may be a good company.
But valuations are rich.
And investors should be patient.
Yesterday, Goldman Sachs upgraded M&T Bank (NYSE:MTB) to a Buy from Neutral, and as a result, we were prompted to review this stock for relative valuation. Our conclusion shows that not only is MBT not value-driven right now, but the stock has also tested longer-term resistance.
First, the EPS trends since 2009 have been excellent, but the stock price has increased proportionally too, so valuations have not improved. This suggests that Goldman Sachs anticipates continued EPS increases, but the EPS trend line for MTB suggests that EPS may have hit a ceiling near $2.5.
That brings this buy recommendation into question. If EPS has hit a ceiling, as it appears to have, buying MBT at these levels may not be nearly as attractive as the buy recommendation might have you believe. The P/E trends also suggest that MTB is at the upper end of its multi-year P/E trend, suggesting a relatively rich valuation for the company, based on its own historical measure.
However, the most important part of our analysis came from our price-based evaluation. According to our real-time trading report for MTB, the stock has also tested its longer-term resistance level, and it is poised to decline back to longer-term support again. That makes MTB a sell/short at resistance, with a downside target of support.
According to our observations, MTB is a much better buy at longer-term support levels, so this buy recommendation from Goldman Sachs should be taken with a grain of salt. They may be saying that MTB looks like a solid company for long-term investments, but patient investors are likely to get much better entry levels.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051311:08
SYMBOL = HPQ
HP's profitability margins are improving and the product innovations are compelling.
The shares remain materially undervalued.
The technicals are intermediate- and long-term bullish.
HP (NYSE:HPQ) is set to report second quarter earnings on May 22nd. Investors and analysts will be watching for signs of continued strength in the Personal Systems segment. My expectation is that performance in the PC market will be worse than it was in the first quarter. But I expect excellent performance on the profitability, EPS, front.
There are bright spots on the innovation and product development front. HP is entering the 3D printing market during the summer. And the firm's offerings in the PC, converged storage, server, and cloud spaces are competitive.
I remain bullish on HP, as the shares remain 40% undervalued.
The HP Helion, a portfolio of cloud products and services that enable organizations to build, manage and consume workloads in hybrid IT environments, was introduced.
The HP DL380z, the latest version of the workstation series, will be available beginning in June.
HP's Facility-as-a-Service offering is available now; FaaS is data center as a service.
The company is attempting to get legacy EMC VNX and CLARiiON CX4 users to refresh to HP 3PAR by enabling a smoother transition than what is required for a VNX 2 refresh.
HP and Foxconn are creating a new line of cloud-optimized servers specifically targeting service providers.
HP is a leading provider of products, technologies, software, solutions and services to individuals, consumers, small- and medium-sized businesses, and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors. HP's operations are organized into seven reportable segments for financial reporting purposes: Personal Systems, Printing, the Enterprise Group, Enterprise Services, Software, HP Financial Services, and Corporate Investments.
HP should use strategic approaches tailored to the needs of the business segment. The Enterprise Services segment is better suited to the traditional classical strategy that is thought in business schools, which is a result of the long-term contractual nature of the business. The software segment should follow a visionary and shaping strategy; it is following a shaping and adaptive strategy. The remainder of the core business should follow, and is following, an adaptive strategy.
For the second quarter, I think revenues decline 3% on weakness in Personal Systems, Printing, and Enterprise Services. There is scope for an upside surprise from Personal Systems, but part of the recent strength in PC sales was driven by the end of the XP lifecycle, which should wane in the coming quarters. Printing is a no-growth to low-growth business right now, and the Enterprise Services group is in the process of a restructuring. With that stated, the cost reductions implemented in prior quarters will improve operating income and net income relative to the year-ago period. Additionally, I'm expecting GAAP diluted EPS of $0.70 while management is guiding towards GAAP diluted EPS of $0.62 to $0.66.
In summary, I'm expecting slightly down revenues with flat profitability relative to the prior quarter while the consensus and management's guidance is for flat revenues with deteriorating profitability. Thus, there is scope for a significant beat on the bottom line when management reports fiscal second quarter earnings.
On the server front, there is scope for a strong product refresh in server as ARM-based chips for servers begin to roll out. From social-networking companies and financial-services companies to other operators of large data centers, demand for power-efficient chips for servers, networking and storage systems is expected to be strong. This is an opportunity that is expected to materialize in the back half of the decade, as HP invests in ARM-based servers. Additionally, Moonshot is expected to be a substantial contributor to revenues in fiscal 2015.
Converged storage is a storage architecture that combines storage and compute into a single entity. Simply stated, it reduces the complexity of storage and improves application performance and delivery. Converged storage is one of the faster growing areas within HP, as the firm wins business from rivals NetApp (NASDAQ:NTAP) and EMC. Also, the wins from 3PAR have some pull through for StoreOnce, backup and recovery.
For the first quarter, HP is expected to generate a 4.8% return on equity, which is well above its cost of equity.
General Risks
The share price is likely to remain volatile and investors could lose a portion or all of their investment.
Investors should judge the suitability of an investment in HPQ in light of their own unique circumstances.
A decline in the global economic growth rate and/or a decline in the pace of economic growth in the United States could adversely impact the results of operations and the share price.
The technology industry is characterized by rapid technological change, which could materially adversely impact the results of operations.
Competition in product development and pricing could adversely impact performance.
Incorrect forecasts of customer demand could adversely impact the results of operations.
Higher interest rates may reduce demand for HPQ's offerings and negatively impact the results of operations and the share price.
This section does not discuss all risks related to an investment in HPQ.
HP remains in a bull market of intermediate and primary degree. The bull market started back at the end of 2012 and may be in the latter innings. But the momentum favors bulls.
Based on the fundamentals of HP, the intrinsic value of the shares is $46.61. At the current share price, HP is about 41% undervalued. Also, at the base case valuation, HP would be trading at under 17 times my 2014 EPS forecast.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051311:38
SYMBOL = POT
Potash Corp. is a perfect example that contrarian investing is a successful investing approach.
Rebound in fertilizer stocks is ongoing, and has not come to an end yet.
There is nothing wrong with getting rich slowly.
Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan (NYSE:POT) remains a top investment choice for investors who want to play a recovery in fertilizer stocks. The potash sector experienced rapid turmoil nearly a year ago when competitor Uralkali (OTC:URALL) announced that it would break up the Belarusian/Russian potash cartel and instead pursue a volume-over-price strategy. As a consequence, both potash prices and share prices of fertilizer companies selling potash, phosphate and nitrogen products fell off a cliff. Simultaneously, investor sentiment with respect to fertilizer businesses tanked, and many companies lost 30% or more of their market capitalization in a matter of days.
Contrarian investment opportunity
For more background information as to why I thought Wall Street got it wrong, and Potash Corp. was an excellent contrarian investment at the time, I'd like to refer you to my original investment thesis from September 25, 2013 (here). The main reason why I aggressively recommended fertilizer stocks in general, and Potash Corp. in particular, was because the CEOs of a variety of fertilizer companies took the opportunity to publicly invalidate Wall Street's assumptions of a sector meltdown (see references made in the above-mentioned article).
Long story short: Uralkali announced a volume increase, Wall Street and investors panicked, and share prices collapsed. In other words, The likelihood of finding tremendous value was extraordinary high. I cannot imagine any other sector that offered such outsized return potential at the time (except for maybe some stocks in the financial sector in 2010), and I have aggressively and repeatedly made the case for an investment in fertilizer companies. Not surprisingly, with investor emotions slowly fading into the background, a more rational approach to potash firms took over. Fast forward one year. The doomsayers have been wrong once again, and potash firms across the board are rebounding slowly but consistently.
At the beginning of the year, in early February, I made the controversial statement that I expect Potash Corp., as well as other potash companies, to return to their pre-crisis stock price levels. I wrote:
Hefty share price declines oftentimes define the beginning of a slow and gradual recovery trend, and it was of no real surprise that potash companies rebounded nicely in the second of half of 2013 and the beginning of 2014. Now, share prices of potash firms are correcting once again, which I attribute to an overall profit-taking mentality in the marketplace. However, long-term investors can still find a decent bargain in Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan over the next two or three years, and I have repeatedly argued that I expect shares of potash firms to climb back to pre-crisis levels (in the case of Potash Corp. this would imply a target price north of $38 per share).
While controversial at the time, Potash Corp. now indeed seems on its way to reclaim its pre-crisis price level.
Share performance
The chart below depicts the share performance of Potash Corp., Mosaic (NYSE:MOS), K Plus S AG ADR (OTCQX:KPLUY) and Compass Minerals International (NYSE:CMP) over the last two years. All companies have rebounded significantly from their lows marked just after the Uralkali announcement in July/August 2013.
Of course, Potash Corp. felt the effect of distressed potash prices in the last quarter. The company reported earnings per share of $0.40 which compares against earnings per share of $0.63 in last year's first quarter. Lower nutrient prices clearly had an impact on Potash Corp. The chart below depicts the change in Potash Corp.'s gross margin from the first quarter 2013 to the most recent quarter.
The comparison is particularly insightful, because nutrient prices were affected by Uralkali's strategic repositioning in the second half of 2013 (and still are in Q1 2014) but not in Q1 2013. As investors can see, Potash Corp. took the largest gross margin hit in its potash segment, while its other segments nitrogen and phosphate were not as severely impacted.
Long-term business drivers are as convincing and solid as ever
Though Uralkali definitely caused massive uncertainty for potash producers with respect to future fertilizer prices, which also encouraged strategic buying behavior of fertilizer dealers, one of the main reasons for my long thesis was that long-term supply/demand dynamics continue to be very favorable for potash producers. A growing world population, limited supply of land available and suitable for agriculture and the need to increase crop yields are very convincing secular macro trends that should support share prices of fertilizer companies such as Potash Corp. and its peers.
Investors who like the fertilizer business but don't want to go all-in with Potash Corp., could consider German fertilizer company K Plus S AG ADR (OTCQX:KPLUY), which has significant exposure to the salt business and is less reliant on potash (see the original thesis of this completely below-the-radar company here).
What we really see here unfolding is a repeating pattern that should be all-too-familiar to contrarian investors. Uralkali's announcement to leave the cartel structure was a Black Swan event, and investors panicked and sold shares with no regard for their intrinsic value. After hysteria and excitement abated, share prices recovered slowly but steadily over an extended period of time. Contrarian investors could have made good money here if they bought just when pessimism peaked. Of course, it is not realistic to assume that every contrarian investor could have picked up Potash Corp. at the lowest possible price. However, if investors just bought after the most extreme volatility subsided, they could have pocketed somewhere between 20%-25% until now with more upside potential ahead. The recovery in potash stocks is not over yet. Strong BUY.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051311:38
SYMBOL = ARR
ARMOUR Residential presented unconvincing first quarter results last week.
As opposed to other mREITs in the sector, ARMOUR Residential's book value continued to slide.
ARMOUR Residential is not a good choice for income investors. Short or Avoid.
ARMOUR Residential REIT, Inc. (NYSE:ARR) is a mREIT that invests predominantly in fixed rate, adjustable rate and hybrid adjustable rate mortgage-backed securities backed by government-sponsored enterprises such as Fannie Mae (OTCQB:FNMA), Freddie Mac (OTCQB:FMCC) or Ginnie Mae. ARMOUR Residential has somewhat gained notoriety with investors due to its sector-leading distribution yield of approximately 14% as well as its poor performance of its shares over the last five years.
MREITs such as ARMOUR Residential shot up in popularity after the real estate bubble burst in 2007/2008 and the financial crisis unfolded. Low interest rates and high leverage ratios allowed mREITs to capitalize on investments in a portfolio of mortgage-backed securities and funnel substantial amounts of cash flow through to investors.
ARMOUR Residential is the worst performing mREIT over a one-year, two-year and five-year performance measurement period when compared against the following peers: Annaly Capital Management (NYSE:NLY), American Capital Agency Corporation (NASDAQ:AGNC), American Capital Mortgage Investment Corporation (NASDAQ:MTGE), Hatteras Financial (NYSE:HTS) and Capstead Mortgage (NYSE:CMO).
ARMOUR Residential has lost 38.55% of its value over the last two years, 29.80% over the last twelve month but is up 6.53% YTD.
ARMOUR Residential's underperformance compared to other mREITs is striking and is an immediate reflection of ARMOUR Residential's higher balance sheet risks, high leverage and a distribution yield that some may deem unsustainable. In addition, ARMOUR Residential's dividends have been cut by 58% since 2011 which clearly contributed to the decline in ARMOUR Residential's share price.
ARMOUR Residential delivered first quarter 2014 results on May 5, 2014 which were everything else but pretty. For the first quarter 2014 ARMOUR Residential reported:
A GAAP net loss of $19.8 million or $0.07 per common share. This compares against GAAP net income of $102.3 million or $0.29 per common share in the year ago quarter.
Core income of $58.3 million or $0.15 per common share compared against core income of $67.5 million or $0.20 per common share in Q1 2013: A decline of 14% or 25% on a per share basis.
A Q1 2014 average net interest rate margin of 1.82% compared against 1.35% in the year ago quarter.
Two developments in particular contributed to my continued bearish stance on ARMOUR Residential:
Its leverage ratio remains high and actually has increased sequentially: For the most recent quarter, ARMOUR Residential's leverage ratio stood at 8.12:1 which compares against 6.92:1 at the end of December 2013. Way too high in my opinion.
The most prevailing reason to maintain a negative outlook on ARMOUR Residential: Another quarter of declining book value per share. ARMOUR Residential reported a book value per share of $4.67 in Q1 2014 which compares against $4.75 per share in Q4 2013 (minus 1.7% sequentially) and against $6.69 per share in the year ago quarter (minus 30% y-o-y).
Both Annaly Capital Management and AGNC have presented first quarter results that hinted at a reversal of negative book value growth: Annaly reported a sequential increase in book value per share of 1.4% and AGNC showed positive book value growth of 2.3%. As long as ARMOUR Residential's book value erosion has not stopped, investors should not consider an investment in the mREIT.
Dividends and yields
If an mREIT can be used as an example of why mREIT investments despite their high yields are not necessarily lucrative, one has to look no further than ARMOUR Residential. As described above, ARMOUR Residential has not been a good investment for shareholders: The stock is down nearly 39% over the last two years and capital losses are higher than ARMOUR Residential dividend income.
ARMOUR Residential currently pays investors $0.05 per share per month which translates into annual shareholder payments of $0.60 per share. With an annualized forward dividend yield of 14.15% ARMOUR Residential ranks at the top end of the mREIT yield spectrum -- even surpassing the 13% yield of American Capital Mortgage Investment Corporation.
I am generally not a fan of mREITs, though I do have a positive opinion on classic real estate investment trusts as vehicles for income. MREITs attract most of their investors from the retail base, many of whom purchase solely for cash flow income. Nothing wrong with that, but ARMOUR Residential's historical performance is a good reminder that cash flow income can be more than offset by capital losses. Given ARMOUR Residential's first quarter results, I see little reason to change my outlook on the mREIT. I have previously been extraordinarily bearish on Annaly Capital Management and American Capital Agency Corporation as well, however, both companies have delivered sequential book value growth. Declining per share book values remained a centerpiece of my mREIT short thesis. As long as ARMOUR Residential's book value growth doesn't reverse, there is no rush in purchasing this mREIT for income. Short or Avoid.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051311:46
SYMBOL = DAL
Delta is investing $770 million in cabin upgrades on narrow-body airplanes.
The company offers a highly competitive cabin product compared to other major U.S. carriers.
A high passenger acceptance of the airline's product both in the domestic and international markets may generate additional profitable flights.
Delta's Seattle expansion might turn out to be profitable in light of a strongly growing Transpacific market.
Since late 2012, Delta's (NYSE:DAL) stock began to soar rapidly. Investors usually talk about the great performance of the company since then, about its great success and its small profit in the last quarter (Q1), which is traditionally the weakest for U.S. carriers. And they are right: Since December 2013 the stock rose from $27 to $37, the company's profits in 2013 were $2.7 billion. Chances are that this sum will even be surpassed at the end of this year. The oil refinery, which gives the airline more control over its fuel costs, didn't generate a profit in 2013 -- but it is said to generate a small one by the end of 2014. So everything looks good, right? Nothing more to worry about?
A major factor that many investors seem to overlook is the passenger's point of view. Of course, the past performance of a business is a relevant factor for future expectations, but it is just as important as what the company has to offer to its customers. Delta plays a major role in the domestic market as well as in the international market. So let's focus on the domestic site first. To be honest, U.S. carriers don't have the best reputation for their relatively high fees (check in baggage, priority boarding, etc.). But when you compare them, Delta seems to offer one of the best cabin products. The airline offers its customers in-seat entertainment and snacks, even on its domestic routes. Admittedly, passengers using the in-seat screen have to pay for a movie with their credit card, but they can still access the moving map and track their flight.
Having a great part of its domestic fleet equipped with the in-seat entertainment gives Delta another plus in comparison to the rest. And although the snacks usually consist of one or two bags of brezels, cookies or peanuts, you do get something to chew. Other U.S. carriers don't even offer snacks anymore. This might be just a small difference, but it is those small things that make a difference.
Customers who like to enjoy additional legroom on a flight from Atlanta to Los Angeles may book the economy comfort class, as many airplanes are equipped with this hybrid class between economy and business. This hybrid class is something that the new American Airlines still needs to implement on its planes, as many planes being equipped with a U.S. Airways or an (old) American interior do not offer a comparable class to their passengers.
Furthermore, Delta is going to invest an additional amount of $770 million in its domestic fleet to upgrade even more narrow bodies (single-aisle aircraft) to grant a great flight experience to an even greater number of customers. This major upgrade includes in-seat videos, electric power for almost every passenger, and Wi-Fi. Airplanes to be upgraded are the B757, B737, A319 and A320 fleets. Such measures do not only guarantee that the airline offers one of the best cabin products for domestic flights in the U.S., it can also lead to an eventually increasing number of passengers (currently 165 million p.a., according to the company).
This brings us directly to the international market. The company invested heavily in Seattle-Tacoma Intl. in order to transform this airport into a second hub to Asia (after Detroit Metropolitan). The Asian market is one of the strongest growing markets for the airline business, therefore this step as well as partnering with Virgin Atlantic on a Transatlantic scale might very well generate an additional number of international passengers, which will in turn generate highly profitable long-haul flights.
On the vast majority of its international routes Delta does not charge its customers for the first bag, while offering a top notch cabin product including economy comfort and a customer service that led to the award of "World's Best Airline" earlier this year. That often went to Arabic and Asian airlines the last couple of years.
Why does this matter to investors? It does matter as Delta is not only performing well as a transportation company, it is also an airline passengers want to fly. An airline needs to excite the passengers' interest for being successful. So, the product Delta has to offer does matter in respect of its future growth. Who would like to invest in an airline that performed well during the last three quarters but does not offer a top notch and innovative product? With a revenue that is likely to increase this year, with an increasing number of passengers and a cabin product that is constantly being optimized, investors do have reason to believe that Delta's stocks keep on soaring.
On the other hand, there is no such thing as a bulletproof stock. As soon as Delta gets rid of its accumulated debts, which were the reason for the Chapter 11 reorganization, it has to pay income taxes again. If the company performs as predicted, that will likely has to be the case beginning Q1 or Q2 next year. However, some analysts do not see the company paying income taxes in the next two years.
Of course, future political conflicts can and will hit the entire airline sector. But a growing crisis at the Krim peninsula is not very likely to affect the airline's route map much, although Delta is partnering with the Russian Aeroflot with both companies being part of the SkyTeam. A more severe conflict, however, between the United States and Europe on the one side and the Russian Federation on the other side would definitely have the potential of decreasing the demand for air tickets. Whereas Delta as a transatlantic, domestic, and transpacific based company wouldn't be hit in the first place, its transatlantic partners (AirFrance-KLM, Virgin Atlantic) definitely would.
But, considering both the past performance and things to come (cabin upgrades, profitable crude oil refinery, and newer airplanes), Delta seems to have a smooth flight ahead.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051312:26
SYMBOL = SIEGY
Siemens presented recently its long-term strategy “Vision 2020," focusing the company toward growth areas of electrification, automation and digitization.
It offers a 3% dividend yield with good growth prospects over the long-term, supported by its good cash flow generation and strong balance sheet.
Siemens is currently attractive trading at close to 15x forward earnings and has started its $5.5 billion share buyback program this week.
A few months ago, I suggested Siemens (SI) as a good income investment. Although its dividend yield isn't among the highest in the stock market, it is safe and together with its $5.5 billion share buyback program makes Siemens quite attractive for income investors. The company recently released its new long-term strategy called "Vision 2020" with the goal of simplifying the organization and raise productivity.
Siemens is a global powerhouse in electrical engineering and electronics. The company has more than 350,000 employees across the world, working to develop and manufacture products, design and install complex systems and projects, and tailor a wide range of services for individual requirements. The company is one of the world's largest providers of environmental technologies. Around 43% of its total revenue stems from green products and solutions. Siemens has also some financial assets through its financial division Siemens Financial Services. Siemens is the world's largest automation company being therefore the worldwide leading supplier of productivity, flexibility and efficiency offerings for industrial enterprises.
Currently, Siemens' asset portfolio is organized into four main operating businesses, namely Healthcare, Infrastructures, Energy and Industry, under 16 different divisions. Under its new business profile, Siemens is eliminating the sector level and organizing the business into nine divisions, instead of the previous 16. Healthcare will be managed separately, which could fuel some speculation about an eventual spin/exit in the coming years. Its Audiology unit will be spun off and listed in the stock market.
Its new long-term strategy aims to focus the company along the fields of electrification, automation and digitization. The company is orientating its resources toward these growth fields in the future. The company sees 2-3% long-term growth in its traditional electrification business, 4-6% growth in automation and 7-9% growth in digitization. Siemens also wants to improve its corporate governance across divisional functions to reduce complexity, aiming for sustainable cost reductions. By the end of fiscal year 2016, it expects to achieve cost reductions amounting to about €1 billion ($1.37 billion).
To achieve these goals, Siemens wants to enhance employee participation, with up to €400 million ($550 million) annually made available depending on company performance. This is about 3 x higher than today, aiming at supporting a sustainable "ownership culture" at the company and aligning its own goals with employees' interests. Siemens wants to increase share ownership by at least 50% to over 200,000 employees. Currently, employees own about 3% of the shares outstanding.
Regarding its financial goals, Siemens wants to maintain a strong balance sheet, targeting a industrial debt to EBITDA ratio below 1x, in the medium-term. Its dividend payout ratio should be between 40% to 60% of earnings after taxes, without taking into account the impact of share buybacks.
Siemens' market capitalization is about $115 billion and its shares are currently listed on the New York Stock Exchange as American Depositary Receipts (ADR). However, Siemens has recently announced that it will delist from the NYSE. According to the company, the goal of the planned delisting is:
"...the planned delisting and planned deregistration is to address the change in the behavior of investors. The trading of Siemens shares is nowadays conducted predominantly in Germany and via electronic trading platforms or over-the-counter. Trading volume of Siemens shares in the US is low, amounting to significantly less than 5% of its global trading volume in the year 2013. As a consequence processes of financial reporting are simplified and efficiency is improved."
Holders of ADRs can still trade and sell their shares in the over-the-counter market. ADR holders will continue to receive their dividends in U.S. dollars. Siemens expects to delist on May 15, 2014.
Regarding its dividend, Siemens has a good history given that it was raised several times since at least 1995. Its last dividend paid was €3 ($4.10) per share related to Fiscal Year 2013, unchanged from the previous year. At its current share price, it offers a dividend yield of 3%. For FY 2014, Siemens expects basic earnings-per-share growth of at least 15% to more than $8 per share. Assuming a dividend payout ratio of 60%, unchanged from FY 2013, its dividend per share may rise by 17% to €3.50 ($4.81) per share without any impact from the $5.5 billion share buyback initiated this week.
Siemens has a very good cash flow generation capacity and a solid balance sheet, making its dividend quite conservative and has therefore very good growth prospects over the long-term. Its shares are trading at less than 15x its estimated FY 2014 earnings, which is attractive for long-term investors.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051313:11
SYMBOL = UEC
Uranium Energy Corp. has been on the receiving end of many bullish publications lately.
This hasn't kept the stock from a sharp decline that far outpaces its peers.
A cash crunch and accompanying dilution still appear imminent and highly probable.
Even with a sudden jump the uranium spot price, the company's breakeven costs for mining appear unattractive at present.
If you've been following junior uranium miners lately, you've probably noticed that one in particular has been getting a lot of special attention.
Following a bearish article by a contributor here on SA about the risk of dilution to shares of Uranium Energy Corp. (NYSEMKT:UEC), published at the start of April, there has been a spree of bullish articles in support of the company. Three articles by three different SA authors appeared between that bearish article and the end of the month. Zack's Steven Ralston and Casey Research's Marin Katusa also came out to bat for the company. Needless to say, this is a huge amount of interest for a company with a sub 150M market cap at the time (and less than 90M as of this writing).
Uranium demand is poised for long-term growth, which should increase the spot price for uranium, to which UEC is highly leveraged
UEC has sufficient capital to survive until an upturn in uranium's spot price without serious dilution to shareholders
UEC has a fantastic management team and a business model that has been vetted by some of the best in the industry
UEC is now significantly undervalued compared to peers (which is very often attributed to the bear article that started it all off)
One glaring problem with this thesis: the market seems to strongly disagree. Take a look at the YTD chart of UEC versus some of its close peers and industry, with the leader Cameco (NYSE:CCJ) for reference. While the whole industry has slumped recently, the performance difference between UEC and its peers, even in the midst of much promotion and hoopla, is apparent.
Even if a single article on SA were responsible for UEC getting hammered of late, wouldn't the market have swiftly bid shares back up if the bulls were right? Shouldn't the deluge of positive responses have had more impact than the initial lone dissenter? Is it as it appears, that one blogger is dictating the stock's melody while an orchestra of stock analysts are relegated to the background?
All Uranium Energy Needs Is Higher Spot Prices...
At the heart of the differing outlook on UEC is a disagreement over whether it will take a dilutive round of financing for the company to survive to profitability. Listening to the bulls, higher uranium prices are the only panacea the company needs--so long as it can weather a few more quarters, the cash will start to roll in. There are two issues with this view that I'll elaborate on.
Most concede that the timing of the renaissance of uranium prices is difficult to predict and may still be some ways off. However, I suspect that many of UEC's investors took solace from this statement in their latest quarterly report (period ended January 31, 2014):
Existing cash resources and available sources of financing are expected to provide sufficient funds to meet our obligations and carry out our plan of operations for the next twelve months.
At first glance, this encouraging statement can be a bit misleading to readers in two ways. First, the timeline for the company's finances is not synonymous with the timeline for the company to see improvement. In other words, UEC will not wait 12 months to see if uranium rebounds before attempting to raise more money--doing so would be reckless, and could seriously limit its options. Therefore, in order to avoid raising more funds, UEC's management would have to have sufficient confidence that the uranium price has rebounded sustainably, considerably earlier than the end of 2014.
Then there's the phrase "...and available sources of financing..." neatly tucked into the statement. This refers to, well, sources of financing other than its current operating cash. Sure, that could include selling down its inventory and also, no doubt, drawing down the other $10M under its existing credit facility, which happened in March [PR]. But it also leaves wide open room for a myriad other options, including taking on additional debt or equity financing, as those are also "available sources of financing." In essence, the sentence reassures that UEC will not enter bankruptcy in 2014, and little else.
The second issue with the view that UEC's 12-month window can outlast the uranium slump is that uranium could easily remain depressed into 2015. Why do I say this when there's so much buzz about Japanese reactor restarts, highly-enriched uranium leaving the market, and environmental problems in China? Well, I have an article written on another site that shows my thinking more fully (and the situation has deteriorated considerably since then), but I'll summarize here quickly.
The Japanese reactor restarts are not a sure thing, at least not this year. Even once they are restarted, they will have quite a supply of uranium to work off before they add to market demand, since many of the reactors continued to buy uranium under long-term contracts.
Additionally, many uranium projects have been delayed or ceased production as they await a better pricing environment; it's not just UEC who's not selling. That means that a non-trivial amount of supply can come online more or less immediately if the situation improves, which could delay the better part of the recovery once it is underway.
Now as for how the situation has gotten markedly worse, the Financial Times recently reported that Japan is now unlikely to restart any reactors before this summer at the earliest, while it was previously assumed that limited restarts would occur prior to the summer's peak energy months. Well, I guess we can't count on that catalyst to make headway for a couple of months. If, as bulls often promote, UEC is a leveraged play on uranium's spot price, you would probably want to stay away in the short term.
... And More Cash
But now let's assume, for argument's sake, that uranium's spot price does shoot up to $75 /lb, the pre-Fukushima price and almost twice the $41/lb average price UEC realized in FY 2013.
Taking a look at the company's latest 10K, UEC's cost of goods for 2013 (FY ends July) came in at around $38/lb, but this improves to $26/lb factoring out royalties, depreciation, and write downs. It also recorded expenses of $22,395,481, down from around $30M for 2012.
Taking the optimistic assumption of a $75/lb average selling price, $26/lb COGS, and $20M in expenses, UEC would have to sell about 408,000 lbs of uranium in 2014 to break even. Assuming it sells a more realistic 250,000 lbs of uranium, UEC is likely to come up around $7,750,000 short for the year.
The table below summarizes the assumptions for 2014 compared to the results of 2013 (however, keep in mind that UEC's fiscal year ends in July and the 2014 numbers are meant to be taken as a calendar year, i.e. 12 months after 2Q 2014).
Now let's take a close look at UEC's cash position. It closed FY 2013 with just over $14M in cash. By the end of Q2 2014 (end of January) it still had $9M in cash. This was versus about $9M in current liabilities, including $5.8M in debt payments. It is to the management's credit that UEC was able to push back interest payments to Sprott and CEF by two years, thus postponing a large portion of the firm's current liability. Combined with the $10M it was able to draw down from its credit facility, that brings us to around the following:
If the above optimistic scenario can be achieved, then UEC would have a cash position of $8.05 M ($15.80 - 7.75) at year-end. That's a pretty good result, but unlikely to be sufficient to fund expanding operations. With a buoy of cash and high uranium prices, UEC could find new sources of financing on positive terms.
As I said before, however, I think that the optimistic scenario is very unlikely, and less likely now than the at the end of Q2. Hence I would make the assumptions on the table something like this:
Obviously this result, while notably stronger than FY 2013, would still force UEC to seek additional financing before the end of the year.
Bulls of Uranium Energy Corporation are no doubt encouraged by its bolstered cash position and delayed debt repayments announced in March. However, an examination of the uranium pricing environment as well as the company's operational metrics should lead investors to believe that UEC is much more likely to require additional financing than not. That is not to say that financing will occur on very poor terms--if the price of uranium rises and UEC's stock responds, then an equity offering could occur or new debt issued at favorable prices compared to today.
That said, there are very good reasons for the fall in UEC's share price recently, which bullish analysts seem to be either ignoring or countering with far too optimistic operating assumptions. Even for one bullish on uranium in the medium-to-long term, UEC is a very risky investment at this time.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051313:37
SYMBOL = QCOM
QCOM is an excellent combination of good value and strong growth dividend stock.
QCOM is generating strong free cash flows and returns value to its shareholders by stock buyback and by increasing dividend payments.
QCOM raised its earnings per share guidance for the fiscal year 2014.
After beating EPS expectations and missing on revenues in its second-quarter fiscal 2014 earnings report, Qualcomm Incorporated's (NASDAQ:QCOM) stock declined 3.52% on April 24, the day after the announcement, but it has gained 2.7% since then. However, since the beginning of the year QCOM stock has risen 7.7%, while the S&P 500 index has risen 2.6%, and the Nasdaq Composite Index has declined 0.8%. Whereas QCOM has outperformed the market this year, since the beginning of 2013 QCOM stock has risen only 29.3%, while the S&P 500 index has risen 33.0%, and the Nasdaq Composite Index has risen 37.2%. Nevertheless, QCOM stock is a good combination of excellent value and strong growth dividend stock, and in this article, I will explain why, in my opinion, Qualcomm stock is a remarkably promising long term investment.
Qualcomm is a designer and manufacturer of advanced semiconductors for mobile phones and commercial wireless applications. Qualcomm Incorporated was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in San Diego, California.
The table below presents the valuation metrics of QCOM, the data were taken from Yahoo Finance and finviz.com.
Qualcomm's valuation metrics are very good; the company has no debt at all, and the Enterprise Value/EBITDA ratio is low at 13.60. According to Yahoo Finance, QCOM's next financial year forward P/E is low at 13.91 and the average annual earnings growth estimates for the next 5 years is very high at 15%, these give a very low PEG ratio of 0.93, one of the lowest among S&P 500 tech stocks. The PEG Ratio - price/earnings to growth ratio is a widely used indicator of a stock's potential value. It is favored by many investors over the P/E ratio because it also accounts for growth. A lower PEG means that the stock is more undervalued.
Qualcomm has been paying uninterrupted dividends since 2003. On April 8, 2014, QCOM announced a cash dividend of $0.42 per share payable on June 25, 2014, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on June 4, 2014, which represents a 20 percent increase over its prior quarterly dividend. The forward annual dividend yield is at 2.10%, and the payout ratio is only 33%. The annual rate of dividend growth over the past three years was very high at 18.6%, over the past five years was also high at 14.9%, and over the past ten years was very high at 30.3%. I consider that besides dividend yield, the consistency and the rate of raising dividend payments are the most crucial factors for dividend-seeking investors, and QCOM's performance has been impressive in this respect.
On April 23, Qualcomm reported its second-quarter fiscal 2014 financial results, which beat EPS expectations by $0.09 (7.4%) and missed the consensus on revenues.
Second Quarter Results (GAAP)
Revenues: 1 $6.37 billion, up 4 percent year-over-year and down 4 percent sequentially.
Operating income: $1.99 billion, up 6 percent y-o-y and 33 percent sequentially.
Net income: $1.96 billion, up 5 percent y-o-y and 4 percent sequentially.
Diluted earnings per share: $1.14, up 8 percent y-o-y and 5 percent sequentially.
Effective tax rate: 14 percent.
Operating cash flow: $1.81 billion, down 18 percent y-o-y; 28 percent of revenues.
Return of capital to stockholders: $1.59 billion, including $1.00 billion through repurchases of 13.4 million shares of common stock and $589 million, or $0.35 per share, of cash dividends paid.
Non-GAAP Second Quarter Results
Revenues: $6.37 billion, up 4 percent y-o-y and down 4 percent sequentially.
Operating income: $2.34 billion, up 5 percent y-o-y and 26 percent sequentially.
Net income: $2.26 billion, up 9 percent y-o-y and 4 percent sequentially.
Diluted earnings per share: $1.31, up 12 percent y-o-y and 4 percent sequentially.
Effective tax rate: 15 percent.
In the report, Steve Mollenkopf, CEO of Qualcomm said:
We delivered another solid quarter, driven by demand for our leading multimode 3G/LTE chipset solutions and record licensing revenues. Looking forward, we are pleased to be raising our earnings per share guidance for the fiscal year. We continue to see increasing demand for our industry-leading chipsets and strong growth in calendar year 2014 of 3G/4G smartphones around the world.
Competitors and Group Comparison
A comparison of key fundamental data between Qualcomm and its main competitors is shown in the table below.
Qualcomm's valuation metrics look better than those of its main competitors. QCOM has a lower P/E ratio, a lower PEG ratio, and strongest earnings growth prospects.
Qualcomm's Margins and Return on Capital parameters have been much better than its industry median, its sector median and the S&P 500 median, as shown in the tables below.
Personally I am using only fundamental analysis for my investment decisions. After many years of experience, and after having tried all kinds of decisions making including technical analysis, I have reached the conclusion that relying on fundamental information is giving me the highest return. Nevertheless, some investors are successfully using technical analysis to find the proper moment to start an investment (I am not talking about traders; my analysis is only for investors). The charts below give some technical analysis information.
The QCOM stock price is 0.82% above its 20-day simple moving average, 2.10% above its 50-day simple moving average and 11.10% above its 200-day simple moving average. That indicates a short-term, a mid-term and a long-term uptrend.
The weekly MACD histogram, a particularly valuable indicator by technicians, is at -0.00 and descending, which is a slight bearish signal (a rising MACD histogram and crossing the zero line from below is considered an extremely bullish signal). The RSI oscillator is at 62.55 which do not indicate oversold or overbought conditions.
Analyst opinion is divided but most of them recommend the stock. Among the forty two analysts covering the stock, thirteen rate it as a strong buy, nineteen rate it as a buy, eight rate it as a hold, one analyst rates it as an underperform, and one analyst rates it as a sell.
TipRanks is a website that ranks analysts according to their performance. According to TipRanks, among the analysts covering QCOM stock there are only fifteen analysts who have the four or five star rating and twelve of them recommend the stock. On April 14, Deutsche Bank's analyst Brian Modoff reiterated a buy rating on QCOM with a price target of $86. I consider Mr. Modoff's analysis very valuable, since he has 5-Star rating from TipRanks for the accuracy of his previous calls.
In its recent report, QCOM said that it sees increasing demand for its industry-leading chipsets and strong growth in calendar year 2014 of 3G/4G smartphones around the world. As a result, the company raised its earnings per share guidance for the fiscal year. Qualcomm's undisputed technology leadership in 4G should benefit the company as China finally begins to ramp 4G LTE networks, and handset sales follow. QCOM should benefit also on the royalty side, as emerging markets convert from 2G to 3G, which is a technology for which QCOM receives revenue. The license and royalty fee segment (QTL) accounted for about 30% of total sales. QCOM receives royalty fee when customers like Samsung, LG Electronics and Motorola sell CDMA-based equipment.
Qualcomm generates lots of cash flow, and it has an extremely strong balance sheet; cash & investments were $32.1 billion at mid-year FY14, and the company has no debt at all. Qualcomm returns value to its shareholders by stock buyback and by increasing dividend payments. In November 2013, Qualcomm provided an update to its capital allocation strategy, including setting a target of returning 75% of free cash flow to shareholders. Qualcomm paid $4.61 billion in its FY'13 and $2.0 billion in the first two quarters of FY'14 to repurchase its own shares.
Qualcomm has compelling valuation metrics and strong earnings growth prospects, and it has a remarkably low PEG ratio of 0.93, one of the lowest among S&P 500 tech stocks. The company has an extremely strong balance sheet, and it has no debt at all. Qualcomm returns value to its shareholders by stock buyback and by increasing dividend payments. In addition, Qualcomm's undisputed technology leadership in 4G should benefit the company as China finally begins to ramp 4G LTE networks. All these factors bring me to the conclusion that QCOM stock is a smart long-term investment. Furthermore, the rich growing dividend represents a gratifying income.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051314:45
SYMBOL = RAX
Shares of Rackspace have retraced about two-thirds from their highs.
Despite the sell-off, shares are not cheap based on their fundamental valuation.
Competition continues to intensify, putting continued pressure on margins.
Investors in Rackspace Hosting (NYSE:RAX) had a rough year. Despite seeing a bounce upwards on the back of first quarter results, I believe that investors might not have seen the worst yet.
Shares are still quite expensive on traditional metrics as competition for its services is increasing. I remain on the sidelines with a slightly bearish stance.
Rackspace reported first quarter revenues of $421 million which is up 16% on the year, and up 3.2% compared to the fourth quarter of last year. Important to note, Rackspace actually enjoyed foreign currency tailwinds of $2.4 million compared to the fourth quarter ,and $6.6 million compared to last year.
Rackspace saw continued pressure on its gross margins which fell by a full two percentage points to 66.7% of revenues. This gross margin compression was the main driver behind the fall in operating earnings which dropped by 250 basis points to 9.3% of sales. As a result, net earnings fell from $27.3 million to $25.5 million.
The important server count came in at 106,229 with average revenues per server a month coming in at $1,336. The increase in the number of servers, up from 94,122 last year, is the major driver behind growth as average revenues per server rose by just $28 compared to last year.
For the current second quarter, Rackspace foresees revenues to come in between $434 and $440 million. This results in 3.5-5% sequential revenue growth and implies 16.3% year-on-year growth at the midpoint of the guidance.
No full-year outlook has been given at this point in time, yet investors are relieved with the second quarter growth. This came after competitors have slashed prices for their products in recent months.
Rackspace ended the quarter with $314 million in cash and equivalents while total debt including lease obligations came in at $53 million. This results in a net cash position of about $260 million.
Trading around $30 per share, Rackspace's equity is valued at $4.3 billion which implies that operating assets are valued at $4.0 billion.
This values the company at roughly 2.6 times annual revenues of $1.53 billion which the company reported for 2013. The valuation comes down to roughly 46 times 2013's earnings of $87 million.
Share of Rackspace have seen a huge sell-off over the past 12-18 months with shares retracing about two-thirds from their highs set around $80 in January of 2013.
The reason for this is slower growth and increased competition which has a dramatic impact on pricing. Cloud services are rapidly becoming a commodity with huge established players like Amazon.com (NASDAQ:AMZN), Google (NASDAQ:GOOG) and Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) all having launched their own service in recent years. These giants have announced steep price cuts in recent times.
Rackspace has refused to join the latest round of price cuts in what could be a dangerous move, yet the company has little choice as profit margins have already been squeezed severely.
Instead of offering a simple commodity product, it offers superior services accompanied by managed infrastructure and superior customer support. The superior reliability is a big strength as well.
As a matter of fact, Rackspace acknowledges that it has always commanded premium prices, which it has been able to ask given the superior service, quality and accessibility through OpenStack to access both public and private clouds.
Despite these service improvements the costs of Rackspace is quite a bit higher as illustrated by a very informative article from The Register. A 15GB Performance cloud server with four virtual CPUs, 40GB of SSD system disk and a 150GB SSD data disk costs $0.68 per hour at Rackspace. This compares to what the article calls equivalent but lacking service costing $0.28 per hour at both Google and Amazon.com.
While I'm obviously attracted to shares of a profitable and growing company which have seen a 65% sell-off from their highs, I must say that I'm not that impressed with the fundamental value at the moment.
Growth is solid, but around 15% per annum is not that impressive especially with shares trading at around 45 times earnings. This is especially true with competition continuing to increase, which could squeeze margins even further in this capital-intensive business.
Of course there are the valid counterarguments for the company. Rackspace could become a niche player and perhaps many businesses are happy to pay a premium for superior services. Still, I don't believe that the current risk/reward opportunity is appealing, despite a huge sell-off over the past year and a half.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051315:23
SYMBOL = EMR
Emerson Electric reported its Q2 FY 2014 results and missed analysts’ expectations regarding revenues and earnings.
The company performed well in Q2 FY 2014 in comparison to Q2 FY 2013 if the one-off charge due to Artesyn equity investment divestiture is excluded from the results.
The global industrial valves market is forecasted to reach a worth of $72 billion by 2015 that will bring growth for the company’s process management segment.
The company’s network power segment will record more growth in the coming years due to the rise in the global data center IP traffic and telecom capex.
The signs and forecasts of recovery in Europe will also boost the company’s financial performance in the coming years.
Emerson Electric Co. (NYSE:EMR) is involved in crafting and supplying products and services for technology and engineering solutions to the industrial, commercial, and consumer markets. The company reported its Q2 FY 2014 results and missed analysts' expectations regarding revenues and earnings. The company's performance in Q2 FY 2014 reflected a 2.5% fall in the company's earnings in comparison to Q2 FY 2013. The company also experienced a decrease of 2.5% in its revenue due to its recent divestiture. This was a major reason behind the deterioration in the company's financial results in Q2 FY 2014. Therefore, in this article I will comment on the company's performance during the recent quarter. I will also determine some of the factors that will drive the company's performance and position in the coming periods.
The company's net sales declined by 2.5% in Q2 FY 2014 to $5.8 billion (see table below). The company's $5.8 billion revenue earned in Q2 FY 2014 also missed analysts' estimates of $5.9 billion. The major factor the contributed to the decline in the company's top line was the 20.9% decline in the sales from the company's network and power division. This huge fall in the sales of the company's network and power division was due to the impact of the Artesyn Embedded Technologies equity investment (formerly the embedded computing and power business) divestiture. The company asserts that repositioning Artesyn by the majority owner lines up with the company's strategy to create value over the long term.
On the other hand, sales revenue from the company's process management, industrial automation and climate technologies segments grew 4.4%, 1.6% and 5.4% respectively in Q2 FY 2014 in comparison to Q2 FY 2013. In addition to these, the company's commercial and residential solutions also recorded a minute growth of 0.7% in its sales in Q2 FY 2014 in comparison to sales logged in Q2 FY 2013.
The company earned a profit of $547 million in Q2 FY 2014 that was 2.5% down from $561 million earned in Q2 FY 2013 (see table below).
However, if the $34 million one-time Artesyn equity loss had not occurred during Q2 FY 2014, the company would have logged a positive growth in its net income in Q2 FY 2014.
The company's per share earnings remained flat at 77 cents (including 3 cents loss per share from the Artesyn equity investment divestiture) in Q2 FY 2014 in comparison to Q2 FY 2013. This was because the company has fewer shares outstanding in Q2 FY 2014 in comparison to Q2 FY 2013. Analysts expected the company to earn 81 cents per share in the recently reported quarter. Therefore, even if 3 cents per share from the Artesyn equity investment divestiture is excluded from the company's EPS, the company earned 80 cents per share. This is again short of analysts' expectations of 81 cents per share. Overall, the company's top and bottom lines would have recorded growth in Q2 FY 2014 compared to Q2 FY 2013 if the one-off adverse effects from Artesyn were not included. This indicates that the company is headed towards recovery and growth.
Process Management and Network Power Segments and Outlook
The process management and network power segments formed the company's major revenue contributing segments in the first half of the current fiscal year (see pie chart below). Therefore, I will elaborate on the company's prospects in these two fields.
The company's process management orders strengthened in Q2 FY 2014 largely due to vigorous project activity in the North America energy and chemical industries. This segment supplies systems and software for control plant processes such as control values and measurement instrumentation. These industries trigger the demand for measurement devices that generated 45% of the company's process management segment's net sales in FY 2013 (see pie charts below). North America is the major revenue driving region for the company's process management segment (see pie charts below).
The global industrial valves market is forecasted to reach a worth of $72 billion by 2015. The government regulations concerning emission control, accelerating demand for resources such as water and power will drive firm and persistent growth in the global valves market in the coming years. The economic recovery in mature markets and rise in investments in the emerging economies are likely to strengthen the market potential. The growth in population stresses the need for the supply of more power and energy resources and will also invite increased investments.
During Q2 FY 2014, Emerson Electric also recorded growth in its network power orders led by vigorous data center project activity in Europe. North America is also the major revenue contributing region for the company's network power segment as shown in the following pie chart.
The company's network power segment supplies products that provide "grid to chip" power conditioning, reliability and control for telecommunications networks, data centers and other critical applications. The demand for products and services provided by the company's network power segment is likely to grow in the coming years due to growth in the global data center IP traffic and telecom capex in the coming years (see charts below). The company is also restructuring its network power segment in order to capitalize on the upcoming growth in the industry. The restructuring of the Artesyn Embedded Technologies equity investment by the company is part of such efforts.
Recovery in Europe and Growth from Other Markets
Emerson Electric anticipates business confidence will gradually improve and macroeconomic conditions will gain momentum, especially in Europe. In Q2 FY 2014 the company's underlying sales from Europe went up 1% (see table below) indicating recovery.
Both Western and Eastern Europe are forecasted to record positive growth in gross fixed investment, GFI. Western Europe recorded negative 3.4% growth in its GFI in 2012-2013 but is projected to record 1.5% growth in GFI during 2013-2014. Moreover Eastern Europe logged negative 1% growth in GFI during 2012-2013 but a 3% growth in GFI is forecasted for Eastern Europe during 2013-2014.
Emerson Electric is well positioned to capitalize on the long-term inclusive trends of infrastructure spending and enhanced energy efficiency. Emerson Electric's industrial automation and process management segments have been receiving more orders due to the recovery in the end markets of these two segments. The company has also been restructuring its portfolio over the past three months mainly to concentrate on the growing oil and gas and chemical markets.
Furthermore, Emerson Electric is also likely to gain from the gradual adoption of central air conditioning in Asia stimulated by the growing middle class and wider energy efficiency initiatives.
The company recorded 2% growth in its underlying sales while orders went up 9% as disclosed for Q2 FY 2014. The company experienced strong demand across all segments driven largely by huge, multi-year industrial projects, recuperating demand for capital goods, and more favorable business environments in Europe and Asia. During the second half of March 2014, the company's orders in the month were up around 20% and backlog increased to $7 billion. This reflects stronger market conditions and recovery ahead for the industry.
The company reiterated its guidance of $3.68-$3.80 EPS and 3%-5% underlying sales growth for FY 2014. Analysts expect the company to have $3.77 in earnings per share in FY 2014.
The company would have performed well in the recently reported quarter in comparison to same quarter previous year if the one-off divestment and restructuring charge were not added to the financial results. The company is recording growth in orders for most of its segments indicating recovery in the markets. The company's process management and network power segments are major contributors to the company's revenue and are likely to capitalize on the recovery and growth in the industry due to various factors. The recovery in Europe will also boost the company's performance in the coming periods. Overall, these factors indicate bright future prospects for the company and will allow the company to meet its guidelines for FY 2014. Therefore I rate this stock as a buy.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051315:54
SYMBOL = CPE
Callon Petroleum's Q1 earnings report was strong across the board with Permian production up 46% sequentially.
Permian Basin drilling results beat expectations as a result of optimized completions with longer laterals.
As a result, the company raised EUR estimates in the Permian and increased its full-year production guidance.
Despite the stock's recent run-up, there appears to be potential for an additional 25% left in the stock by year-end.
Callon Petroleum (NYSE:CPE) released a bullish Q1 earnings report that advanced the thesis first presented in my February 20 article Callon Petroleum: Permian Basin Pure Play's Stock Is A Bargain. The stock blasted through my 2014 price target of $8.75 and is now up 50% since the article's publication and is now north of $10. That said, the stock appears to have the potential for another 25% by year end.
Q1 Earnings
Highlights from Callon's Q1 earnings report include:
Total operating revenue was up 48%.
Permian daily production of 4,355 boe/d was a sequential increase of 46% over comparable Permian production in Q4 of 2013, comprised of 85% oil.
Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, was $21.9 million.
Adjusted income available to common shareholders, a non-GAAP financial measure, was $0.11 per diluted share.
Operationally, Callon drilled 9 Hz wells and completed 7 during the quarter. Callon's initial two Wolfcamp B Hz wells in Midland Country produced average 30-day peak rates of 911 boe/d and average 50-day peak rates of 820 boe/d. A Wolfcamp A Hz well in Upton County continues to produce under natural flowing pressure after 40 days and will be placed on submersible pump after casing pressure declines.
Average realized prices were strong and mitigated one of my earlier concerns. In particular, realized gas prices were 61% higher:
Additional Bullish Catalysts
During the quarter, Callon completed full redemption of the Senior Notes (13% due 2016) in April. The redemption will substantially reduce the $977,000 of interest expenses experienced in Q1.
As a result of the better than expected YTD drilling results , primarily as a result of completion optimizations which include longer laterals, Callon raised guidance for full-year 2014 by approximately 7%:
Another positive development: full-year lease operating expense guidance was revised down a buck to a midpoint of $9.50/boe from $10.50. Using average Q1 production of 4,355 boe/day, the LOE reduction means a savings of ~$392,000 per quarter or over $1.57 million on an annual basis. As production grows through the year, these estimated savings will obviously increase.
The revised 2014 production guidance represents a meaningful change for CPE's outlook and is the result of two key factors: the company has increased both its type curve and EUR estimates. In the Seeking Alpha Q1 conference call transcript, Callon Senior VP of Operations Gary Newberry discussed the new EUR estimates and I have summarized the data in the chart below:
Using Q1's average realized price of $84.82 per boe, we can readily see these wells have excellent economics. For example, wells in the Southern Midland basin could generate revenue of over $40 million for a $7 million well. In the Central Midland Basin (the Carper Diem field), the wells are even more compelling with revenue of ~6.5x well costs.
Note also that Newberry said:
...all of the EUR and production data that I will discuss is based on two stream reporting. We have estimated that these numbers will be approximately 15% higher on a comparable three stream basis.
So, as good as the table above looks, there is the potential for significant upside moving forward. All of this is extremely bullish for Callon, a small player but one that has 13,500 net acres in the region described by the chart above. This is depicted in a slide from the company's April presentation:
Note this acreage contains stacked plays (Spraberry, Wolfcamp A, Wolfcamp B) that can share infrastructure and thus improve capital efficiencies.
Despite the significant run-up in Callon Petroleum's stock price, the company may have further to go. Several bullish catalysts, including:
Higher than expected well production rates
An improved type curve and higher estimated EURs
Lower lease operating expenses
Lower interest expenses due to full redemption of the 13% Senior Notes
all point to higher profitability and higher reserves growth. In my first article I said:
... the bigger upside is the relatively low-risk undeveloped reserves potential of 140,000,000 boe: >9x more than current total reserves of 14.9 million boe. Therefore there is an excellent chance CPE can continue to grow PV-10 reserves at a 20% clip for the next three years. If so, the PV-10 value would be over $0.5 billion - or ~2x the company's current market cap.
Even after the recent stock run-up, the market cap is only $411 million. The company is now in full development mode in the Permian. This means more focus on optimizing completion techniques and increasing capital efficiencies. Considering the bullish drill-bit results and increased EUR estimates reported in Q1, it seems highly likely the PV-10 value will grow at a significantly higher rate than my previous 20% estimate. If I raise the PV-10 growth rate to 35% to better reflect recent drill bit results, higher production and EUR guidance, and start with 2013's year-end value of $301 million, I get $406 million for this year, and $548 million by year-end 2015. With a current market cap of $411 million, and an outstanding senior secured revolving credit facility of $68 million, CPE's current EV is ~$480 million. That means the stock currently trades at a potential discount of $68 million to my projected year-end 2015 market cap, and suggests a further 25% move in the stock is warranted. Longer term, this stock has all the makings of a multi-bagger. CPE is still a BUY.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051316:05
SYMBOL = GILD
Gilead Sciences is the largest position in my portfolio, as it is the best large cap growth story in the market, in my opinion, right now.
Even though the company just crushed expectations on its last earnings report, investors are slow to realize its growth potential.
The stock is significantly undervalued compared to its big biotech brethren, as well as the overall market. Substantial upside lies ahead.
I want to talk today about Gilead Sciences (NASDAQ:GILD), a large cap biotech with a core HIV franchise, as well as a killer new drug (Sovaldi) to treat hepatitis C. On the recent dip in momentum stocks and sectors like biotech that initiated in early March; I doubled my stake in this fast-growing biotech juggernaut.
With those additional shares, Gilead Sciences is now the biggest position in my personal portfolio, with a cost basis now of around $70 a share. Why? Simply put, Gilead is the cheapest large cap growth story in the market right now, in my opinion. In addition to my equity position, I own long-dated bull call options with a strike price of $120 a share. If I am right and the stock doubles over the next two years, those call options will return some 1000%.
Even if the stock does not double in that time frame, I see considerable upside to this growth play over the next 12 to 18 months. The core driver will be the success of Sovaldi, which posted initial quarterly sales of $2.3B, which blew through even the most optimistic expectations. To put this in perspective, S&P started the year estimating Sovaldi would have $2.8B in sales... for all of 2014! Earnings per share during the quarter came in at $1.48 a share, almost 60 cents a share above the consensus.
Most analysts believe sales will drop off somewhat in the next quarter, simply because they believe some of the initial sales were "frontloaded" due to demand from serious hepatitis C-infected individuals - and their insurance plans - that were waiting for this drug to roll out.
Most estimates I have seen have Sovaldi putting up $5B to $9B in annual sales for 2014, which would make it the biggest new drug launch in history. There does seems to be more concern than is prudent around the high price tag ($84,000 for 12 weeks of treatment), which has drawn the ire of some in Congress and has kept sales expectations on the conservative side.
These worries are overblown for two reasons, in my opinion. First, Sovaldi is almost entirely effective in eradicating hepatitis C, and only needs to be taken via one pill a day. Possible competing treatments are unlikely to be as effective against hep C, and are likely to have to be taken several times a day.
Second, because Sovaldi is so effective against disease, it takes the possibility of a liver transplant off the table. These procedures run from $500K to $1mm per surgery, so Sovaldi's price hardly seems excessive, putting it in that light.
Currently, Sovaldi is usually given in conjunction with Olysio, a compound from Johnson & Johnson (NYSE:JNJ). This combination can bump the price tag to ~$150,000 for a course of treatment. Gilead has also developed ledipasvir, which inhibits the activity of a protein needed for viral replication.
Gilead has filed an NDA with the FDA for a sofosbuvir-ledipasvir combination, which will also be dosed as one pill, once a day. Obviously once, and if, this combination is approved, Gilead will have a new and powerful income stream, as it should be able to eliminate the need for Olysio and keep 100% of treatment cost for itself. Both of the above two points were articulated in very solid recent article right here on Seeking Alpha.
Gilead will also continue to develop new compounds within its market-leading HIV franchise. Investors have been slow to catch up with Gilead's growth story, even as it recently blew through quarterly expectations in its last earnings report.
Analysts have taken notice, though. The consensus earnings estimate has gone from ~$4 a share for FY2014 to over $6 a share since earnings were reported. The consensus for FY2015 is just under $8 a share, moving from under $6 a share prior to quarterly earnings.
This means an investor can pick up a large cap growth stock that is predicted to more than triple its earnings this fiscal year over 2013's levels for 13x forward earnings.
This is not only substantially under valuations of other large cap biotech brethren like Biogen Idec (NASDAQ:BIIB) and Celgene (NASDAQ:CELG), but also at a discount to the overall market multiple (~16x forward earnings). Way, way too cheap given Gilead's much superior growth prospects. The company seems to agree, as it recently added $5B to its stock buyback authorization. STRONG BUY.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051317:45
SYMBOL = BUD
BUD reported Q1 results that showed optimistic signs of future growth.
The 2014 World Cup should provide a boost in sales due to a strong presence in Brazil.
Management showed optimism toward growing its market share in China.
Craft breweries provide an opportunity for capitalization with M&A activity.
BUD trades at a discount to peers, and a coming dip will provide a great buying opportunity.
In Q1 2014, Anheuser-Busch Inbev's (NYSE:BUD) cost of sales decreased, driving EBITDA margins up 10.8%. EPS beat estimates by $0.08 at $1.16. Revenue of $10.61B beat estimates by $90M and signifies a year over year growth rate of 15.7%. The Super Bowl marketing campaign was highly successful, and Bud Light and Budweiser generated nearly half of all social media traffic during the game across all categories, paving the way for a summer marketing program.
In Mexico, EBITDA grew 27%, fueled in part by a World Cup related promotion. EBITDA in Mexico grew 15%, and market share was 75.5% compared to the 67.5% historic average. An important part of the Q1 call was the company's presence in China. In China, EBITDA increased over 47%, and EBITDA margin increasing to 20.4%. Anheuser-Busch is now shifting focus, and plans on having a significant presence at the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, which kicks off in a little over a month.
As mentioned in the Q1 call, BUD has a tremendous opportunity to capitalize on the influx of revenue surrounding the World Cup happening in Brazil in just about a month. As shown by the chart below, Brazil is BUD's third largest market by volume and holds the highest share of the market there. We can expect to see a bump in sales during these next few weeks and into mid-July.
Long-term Growth in China
In the Q1 call, CEO Carlos Alves de Brito addressed a question regarding market penetration in China and the future of the company there.
Again, the premium segment in China is growing way ahead of the total industry. We've always said 15% because that's what we see on the markets. They're comparable, but we still have lots to do to get there. So that's going to be -- again, that's exciting because, I mean, we have all these results, all this growth the last 5 years and the premium segment is still underdeveloped compared to some other markets, so that's very good. And Budweiser has more than 50% of this premium segment and growing, so that's very encouraging. So again, strategy is working, we'll continue to support it. And now, on top of that ... we'll have Corona that will also be arriving in our hands at some point in China. So that's also very exciting.
China is the world's largest market by volume, but Anheuser-Busch has yet to gain a significant market share as they have in the US, Brazil, and Mexico. If Q1 results of growth in China continue into the coming years, this is something to be excited about.
There has been an emergence of craft breweries in recent years, rising in volume by 15% from 2011 to 2012, and 18% from 2012 to 2013. Overall dollars rose 17% from 2011 to 2012, and 20% from 2012 to 2013. As of March 12, 2014, the Brewers Association is aware of 413 brewery openings in 2013, compared to only 44 closings. Craft brewing sales share in 2013 was 7.8% by volume and took up 14.3% of sales by dollars. The rise of craft breweries presents a great opportunity for the company to continue utilizing its expansion model by acquiring some of these new brands.
BUD currently has a P/E ratio of 12.42 and a forward P/E of 18.18. Compared to competitors such as Boston Beer Co. (NYSE:SAM) and Molson Coors (NYSE:TAP) with P/Es of 44.42 and 20.76, respectively, and given the industry average of 19.5, the stock is well-priced. Net profit and operating margins are also much larger than both SAM's and TAP's, and at 28.24% in 2013, better than the industry average of 27.2%. However, the stock is trading at 98.7% of its 52-week high.
The RSI has been toying with overbought territory for a few months now, and is still approaching overbought conditions now. Additionally, the rising wedge pattern we saw from this past August to January is repeating itself, indicating another dip could come soon. I recommend getting in on the dip to come. Hopefully, this will come before the World Cup is in full swing, and the dip will give investors a solid discount.
Anheuser-Busch's global scale and margins allow it to perform significantly better than its peers. Q1 showed a bright outlook, and management gave good insights regarding both the upcoming World Cup in Brazil where BUD controls 67% of the market, and the expanding markets in China. These signs point to increased revenues in both the short and long term.
Additionally, with the popularity of craft breweries on the rise, the company has a great opportunity to continue its pattern of expansion through M&A by adding craft brews to its already extensive portfolio. Although fundamentals indicate BUD is trading at a discount to peers, the technicals indicate a bearish pattern, and a dip in price could be in sight. If the pattern from August to January repeats itself soon, I recommend that investors use it as an opportunity to pick up shares.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051319:12
SYMBOL = AGEN
Agenus is a development-stage biotech with 3 therapy platforms.
Cancer checkpoint inhibitor platform resulted in a partnership with Merck.
A broad pipeline provides many shots at commercialization of therapies.
Agenus (NASDAQ:AGEN) is a discovery-stage biotechnology company specializing in vaccines and cancer checkpoint inhibitors. Combining checkpoint inhibitors with other immune therapies for cancer is a hot trend right now. The key question for potential investors is: what is the likelihood this micro-cap can deliver?
Major pharmaceutical partners tend to have more insight into what is possible and what is valuable than individual investors. Agenus has 3 major partners: GlaxoSmithKline (NYSE:GSK), Johnson & Johnson (NYSE:JNJ), and announced on April 29, Merck (NYSE:MRK).
So far, however, Agenus, including the collaborations with partners, has not obtained an FDA approval for a therapy. Nor does it yet have Phase III results that are likely to lead to FDA approval. It (or its partners) has conducted successful Phase II studies of therapies, which then failed in Phase III, which is not that unusual. In the forefront at this point, based on a successful Phase II trial, Agenus is discussing the design of a Phase III trial for its Prophage vaccine for glioblastoma multiform (GBM).
After the news of the Merck deal, Agenus closed on April 29 at $3.06, up $0.50 or 19.5% for the day, which gave it a market capitalization of $190 million. Since then, price has sunk back to $2.65, with a 52-week low of $2.27 on April 15, after the GSK Phase III trial failure was announced.
While the deals with GSK and Merck are plusses for Agenus, the potential blockbuster would be a combination therapy that showed good safety and efficacy against a cancer. That would require a vaccine that stimulated the immune system to attack the cancer, plus a checkpoint inhibitor that prevented the cancer from protecting itself against the vaccine. It is also a race with competing companies that are working on cancer immunotherapies and developing the checkpoint inhibitors. This would take years, given the necessity of conducting the full scope of clinical trials needed for approval.
When dealing with biotechnology companies and their drug candidates, I tend to favor platforms over individual therapy candidates. With a platform, a company can generate multiple candidates for the same indication or multiple indications. One failure is not necessarily the end of a company. Caution is always indicated, however: just because a company has a platform that can generate multiple candidates does not mean that it will eventually generate a commercially successful therapy.
Agenus, though a tiny company, now has three platforms: the HSP (heat shock protein), or Prophage series of vaccines; the adjuvant vaccine-enhancer, QS-21 Stimulon; and the checkpoint cancer modulator antibody series recently acquired with 4-Antibody in February.
The Phase III data from GSK for an NSCLC (non-small cell lung cancer) vaccine that includes an Agenus component, QS-21, reported missing the first co-primary endpoint in April; the study was stopped. This followed the prior announcement that GSK's similar melanoma vaccine also missed its first co-primary endpoint.
However, the GSK malaria vaccine (RTS,S) containing QS-21 had positive results in a Phase III trial involving over 15,000 children. The trial showed it helped protect young children from malaria for up to 18 months after vaccination, reducing infections by 46%. GSK plans to submit a filing for commercialization to the EMA (European Medicines Agency) in 2014. Agenus is entitled to receive a milestone payment on launch (likely 2015) and royalties.
Although the QS-21 platform has mixed results so far, note that it is a vaccine enhancer, so it is highly dependent on the activity of the vaccine. It will likely continue to be tried with various vaccine candidates, and so, could produce more milestone or royalty revenue, or enhance an Agenus product. For more details, see A Closer Look At Agenus' QS-21 Stimulon Vaccine Adjuvant.
The Prophage vaccines are based on Agenus's HSP (heat-shock protein) platform. HSP expression increases when cells are subjected to stress, including high temperatures. HSPs produced by cancer cells differ from normal tissue HSPs, and can be made to produce an immune response against a patient's (specific) cancer. So each patient gets a vaccine that is specific to his or her cancer. If ever commercialized, that would imply a high cost of goods sold, as we saw with Dendreon's (NASDAQ:DNDN) Provenge.
HSP-based vaccine clinical trial results to-date have been mixed. The latest effort is an NCI (National Cancer Institute) large (222 patient) Phase II trial of HSPPC-96 plus bevacizumab (Avastin) for recurrent GBM (glioblastoma multiforme, a type of brain cancer), which started in May 2013. This follows up positive results on a smaller Phase II trial of G-200 as a single agent for recurrent GBM following surgery.
We also have the preliminary results of an earlier Phase II trial of G-100 (HSPPC-96) plus standard of care for newly-diagnosed GBM showing a 146% increase in progression-free survival to 17 months and a 60% increase in overall survival to 23.3 months over the standard of care. However, that was a small, single arm (no placebo arm) trial [See Prophage Positive Phase II GBM data]. Based on the results, Agenus announced it plans to meet with the FDA to discuss a definitive, randomized Phase III trial. While there is blockbuster potential in Prophage for GBM and other cancers, with a Phase III trial not yet underway, it will be years before FDA approval could make revenue possible.
HSP technology appears to work against viruses as well as cancers, as the viruses cause cells to produce an HSP. Agenus's HerpV vaccine (which includes SQ-21) for genital herpes is in a Phase II trial, which completed enrollment in February, 2013. Preliminary topline results reported in November showed that HerpV patients had a statistically significant 15% reduction in viral shedding after the initial three injections, with a 34% reduction in viral load vs. patients in the placebo arm. That met the primary endpoint. In addition, patients will receive a booster injection. Data from that should be available before the end of this quarter. The results are interesting, good enough to plan a Phase III trial, but I would like to see more detailed data on whether any patients became virus-free, and I'm sure the FDA would, as well.
Finally, we have the newest addition, the CPMs (checkpoint modulators or inhibitors). This is an exciting field. The science is promising, and has been commercially proven in the case of Bristol-Myer's Yervoy. Merck has signed a deal for Agenus to "discover and optimize fully human antibodies against two undisclosed Merck checkpoint targets using the 4-Antibody." If successful, there could be milestone payments of up to $100 million, as well as royalties from product sales. But this is likely to be a long process, and is highly speculative. The compounds have not been discovered yet. If they can be created, they then have a long gauntlet of pre-clinical and clinical trials. On the plus side for Agenus, earning on early milestones does not require success at later milestones.
In acquiring 4-Antibody, Agenus agreed to milestone payments of up to $40 million. There may be no direct relation between Merck's milestones and Agenus payment to the original owners of 4-Antibody, but there is symmetry in the speculative nature of the deals. All of the checkpoint antibodies Agenus now owns are pre-clinical. They are all a long way from commercialization. They could be invaluable, or they could be duds. They might work with a Prophage therapy, or they might work better in combination with a therapy from another company. In other words, checkpoint therapies are promising, but there are a lot of "ifs" between the current situation and commercial success.
In addition to working with Merck, Agenus plans to bring at least one antibody to clinical trial by 2015. Successful early-stage clinical trials typically mean that better deals with higher milestone payments can be made with major pharma companies.
As a small-cap, development-stage biotechnology company, in most quarters, the key data is cash burn rate. Agenus had revue of $0.7 million in Q1 2014. Net loss was only $0.4 million, but this was due to the effect of a non-cash $9.9 million gain on termination of the GSK NSCLC trial. Cash burn was about $10 million in the quarter, but Agenus raised $56 million by selling stock on the strength of its 4-Antibody acquisition. Agenus ended with $73.5 million in cash and equivalents.
In a situation like this, I look closely at market capitalization. At close of Monday, May 12, 2014, Agenus had a price of $2.65 and a resulting market capitalization of $165 million, making it a micro cap. Some analysts would subtract out the cash on hand of $73.5 million to get an enterprise value number, but figure much of that cash will be burned through before milestone payments or royalties kick in.
I think that market cap is low for a company that has three differing platforms, many shots on goal, and substantial interest from GSK, J&J, and Merck.
Agenus has been fairly successful at keeping expenses low by letting partners and public agencies do much of the clinical R&D, as will be the case once the checkpoint candidates are handed over to Merck.
Given the limited success of the QS-21 GSK vaccines, the high hurdles still ahead of the Prophage vaccines, and the very preliminary nature of the checkpoint modulator molecules, it is not surprising that investors have been cautious about Agenus so far. Risks abound.
Given the cash available, the likelihood that a GBM therapy will graduate to pivotal Phase III trials, and the possibility that checkpoint inhibitors will be the crucial 21st-century breakthrough in treating cancer (when combined with other therapies), I think the upside overbalances the downside. I am surprised that market cap is not higher. The likelihood of milestone payments and royalties from the malaria vaccine is also a major plus. Milestone payments from various partners seem likely to carry Agenus until royalties kick in.
Since, like almost all micro-caps, Agenus is thinly traded, news can have an exaggerated impact on the stock price. With many trials underway that can fail or succeed, I think the important thing to keep in mind, if you are a long-term investor, is that a single failure is not as important as a single success. It only would take one strong Phase III Prophage trial result to give Agenus (with or without a partner) a commercial product, substantial revenue, and proof of the viability of one of its three platforms. Even strong Phase II data would likely push up investor perceptions.
Based on data readouts to-date and my past experience with analyzing early-stage therapies, I would assign, conservatively, a 50% to 75% likelihood to the event that Agenus (including partnerships) will produce a commercially viable therapy (in addition to the malaria vaccine) within the next five years. That means investors who cannot stand up to a 50% chance of failure should wait until more data is available (which could be soon in the cases of HerpV and GBM).
The hundred-million dollar plus royalties potential upside from the Merck deal can be used as a rule-of-thumb indicator of the value of collaboration agreements, at least for the CPMs. There should be a couple of those. The value of a successful treatment for GBM would be much higher. Depending on pricing and the exact label, even though GBM is relatively rare, revenues generated should be some fraction of a billion per year. A point of comparison is Yervoy revenue in Q1 2014, which was $271 million, up 18% y/y.
For now, I would value the malaria vaccine and other SQ-21 potential vaccines at a market cap of $100 million; the potential GBM treatment at a market cap of $250 million; and the checkpoint franchise at a market cap of $400 million. That would bring the total market cap to $750 million, or $12.06 per share. But I would emphasize that this is an assigned number, purely an opinion, and subject to change. If the GBM Phase III trial fails to materialize or fails to reach its endpoints, and the CPM franchise does not attract partners, we would be back to the market cap we have today. On the upside, if there are multiple breakthroughs, Agenus could be another Biogen (NASDAQ:BIIB) or Celgene (NASDAQ:CELG) a decade from now.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051321:30
SYMBOL = COP
At its annual meeting, ConocoPhillips reaffirmed its long term growth targets of 3-5% annual production growth.
Thanks to its focus on North America, growth is outpacing peers like Exxon Mobil and Chevron, which are struggling to even maintain reserves.
Conoco's investments in the Permian and oil sands are delivering production growth, margin expansion and reserve growth.
Investors should rotate out of CVX and XOM and into COP.
On Tuesday, ConocoPhillips (NYSE:COP) held its annual shareholder meeting, and the company delivered more solid news that should please existing shareholders and convince new investors to initiate a position. Thanks to its focus on North American oil and gas, ConocoPhillips will be able to grow revenue and margins far faster than larger integrated peers like Chevron (NYSE:CVX) and Exxon Mobil (NYSE:XOM). While shares do trade at a premium multiple compared to some competitors, COP is the best major oil stock thanks to solid growth prospects and a nice dividend.
The major oil companies have worked tirelessly to grow production for several years to little avail. When it comes to increasing production, ConocoPhillips is without a doubt best in class. For five years, Exxon has actually seen output decline, though in some recent quarters output has shown inconsistent and mild growth (Exxon's operating and financial data can be found here). Given its weak past performance and declines from major existing fields, I am not convinced recent growth is the new trend or merely an aberration from the long-term decline. With some projects coming online though, Exxon could grow production by 0.5-1.5% in 2014 with a similar showing in 2015. Chevron has also been spending billions to grow production with massive projects in Australia and in off-shore wells (Chevron's operating and financial data can be found here). Unfortunately, this capital plan has not been delivering results. Chevron will spend over $40 billion in cap-ex this year but is seeing production declines. Chevron is unlikely to grow production by more than 2% annually over the next three years.
Conversely, ConocoPhillips should be able to grow production by an annual 3-5% over five years. In fact, COP reaffirmed that guidance at Tuesday's meeting (details available here). Conoco has been investing heavily in the oil sands and major U.S. formations like Eagle Ford, the Permian Basin and Bakken, which will drive production growth for years. These areas also deliver strong margins of more than $30/barrel, which will cushion margins even with oil prices struggling in the $90-$105 range. Cap-ex should also stay capped at $16 billion in 2014 and 2015 before dipping a bit in 2016. As a consequence, as volume grows beyond 2015, cap-ex will decline, which leaves the company with a significant amount of free cash flow with which to pay higher dividends and repurchase stock. Over the past three years, the company has been running around the flat line for free cash flow due to expansion projects. As these capital needs decline, I expect annual free cash flow to pass $7 billion in 2016 or 2017. Thanks to major finds in North America, Conoco has been able to fully replace its proven and probable reserves, which Chevron and Exxon have struggled to do. Conoco expects its strategic shift to increase margins by 3-5% per year assuming prices stay flat.
Conoco will also benefit from potential for US LNG exports. Thanks to its domestic abundance, natural gas is much cheaper in the United States than in foreign markets like Europe and Asia. If the US moves to export natural gas, Conoco can sell gas at the international rate while maintaining the lower costs of the US market, which will lead to significantly higher margins. I do not expect significant LNG exports in the near future, especially as they could also push up domestic prices, which is politically unpopular. Over time though, there will be growing exports, which will provide a further tailwind for results.
ConocoPhillips' focus on North America to drive growth is achieving significant results. The company is growing production more rapidly than peers, expanding margins, and growing its reserve base. By 2017, Conoco will deliver more than $20 billion in operating cash flow and $7 billion in free cash flow. In the meantime, Conoco has a pristine balance sheet with a debt to equity ratio of less than 50%, which allows it to run around breakeven on free cash flow while growing the dividend.
COP currently yields 3.6% and should earn at least $6.25 this year, giving it a 12.5x multiple. For comparison, Chevron is trading around 11.7x earnings and Exxon is 13.2x earnings. Given its stronger growth prospects and focus on production rather than refining, I believe Conoco should trade at a premium to its integrated peers. At current prices, I would be a seller of CVX and XOM and rotate into COP. With 3-5% production growth, COP should definitely trade 14x earnings or upwards of $88. With its North American focus and solid production growth that management affirmed at the annual meeting, ConocoPhillips is still a great investment.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051321:34
SYMBOL = DPZ
Domino's franchise business model has allowed it to carve out a nice Economic Castle.
But despite its strong economic returns, the market has caught on to its fantastic ability to deliver value to shareholders (ROIC less WACC).
The company's shares are overpriced, and we continue to prefer opportunities in the Best Ideas portfolio.
As part of our process at Valuentum, we perform a rigorous discounted cash-flow methodology that evaluates the intrinsic value of a company on the basis of its future free cash flows and the strength of its balance sheet (its net cash position). Let's walk through our cash-flow-derived fair value estimate of Domino's Pizza (NYSE:DPZ) and run shares through the Valuentum process. We'll also highlight why we think Domino's boasts an Economic Castle and why this view is independent of, albeit related to, the price-to-fair value assessment.
For those that may not be familiar with our boutique research firm, we think a comprehensive analysis of a firm's discounted cash-flow valuation, relative valuation versus industry peers, as well as an assessment of technical and momentum indicators is the best way to identify the most attractive stocks at the best time to buy. This process culminates in what we call our Valuentum Buying Index, which ranks stocks on a scale from 1 to 10, with 10 being the best. Essentially, we're looking for firms that overlap investment methodologies, thereby revealing the greatest buying interest by investors. The firms we like are valued attractively and are just starting to see their value recognized by the market via strong pricing performance.
At the methodology's core, if a company is undervalued both on a discounted cash-flow basis and on a relative valuation basis and is showing improvement in technical and momentum indicators, it scores high on our scale. Domino's Pizza posts a Valuentum Buying Index score of 4, reflecting our "overvalued" DCF assessment of the firm, its unattractive relative valuation versus peers, and bullish technicals. Since the Valuentum Buying Index puts a large emphasis on valuation as the primary consideration and Domino's shares are cheap, the firm registers a below-average rating on our scale. We tend to add firms that score a 9 or 10 on the scale (a "we'd consider buying" rating) and hold these firms in the portfolio until they register a 1 or 2 on the scale (a "we'd consider selling" rating). With that said, let's dig into Domino's report.
• Domino's Pizza's business quality (an evaluation of our ValueCreation™ and ValueRisk™ ratings) ranks among the best of the firms in our coverage universe. The firm has been generating economic value for shareholders with relatively stable operating results for the past few years, a combination we view very positively. We think Domino's Pizza has one of the strongest Economic Castles in our coverage universe on the basis of its immediate forward forecasted 5-year ROIC-less-WACC spread, which has consistently been several hundred points above its cost of capital.
• Domino's Pizza is the number one pizza delivery company in the US, based on reported consumer spending. The firm also has a leading international presence and ranks as the second largest pizza company in the world, based on number of units and sales.
• The firm's highly-profitable master franchise model, which is a large factor behind its strong Economic Castle due to minimal capital requirements, continues to generate sustainable returns for franchisees ($50k-$75k in annual EBITDA), revealing healthy internals. Its international operations are entirely franchised, while its domestic operations are mostly franchised. Where a moat assessment may overlook Domino's as a strong business, an Economic Castle assessment identifies the strength of its business model as clear as day.
• Domino's is targeting a long range outlook of 4%-6% net unit growth, domestic same store sales growth of 1%-3%, international same store sales growth of 4%-6%, and global retail sales growth of 6%-10%. Our forecasts are calling for mid-single-annual expansion.
• Domino's scores a 4 on the Valuentum Buying Index. We generally prefer firms in the portfolio of the Best Ideas Newsletter, a collection of companies that have registered the highest rankings on our system.
The best measure of a firm's ability to create value for shareholders is expressed by comparing its return on invested capital with its weighted average cost of capital. The gap or difference between ROIC and WACC is called the firm's economic profit spread. Domino's Pizza's 3-year historical return on invested capital (without goodwill) is 273.2%, which is above the estimate of its cost of capital of 9.3%. As such, we assign the firm a ValueCreation™ rating of EXCELLENT. In the chart below, we show the probable path of ROIC in the years ahead based on the estimated volatility of key drivers behind the measure. The solid grey line reflects the most likely outcome, in our opinion, and represents the scenario that results in our fair value estimate.
Firms that generate a free cash flow margin (free cash flow divided by total revenue) above 5% are usually considered cash cows. Domino's Pizza's free cash flow margin has averaged about 8.4% during the past 3 years. As such, we think the firm's cash flow generation is relatively STRONG. The free cash flow measure shown above is derived by taking cash flow from operations less capital expenditures and differs from enterprise free cash flow (FCFF), which we use in deriving our fair value estimate for the company. For more information on the differences between these two measures, please visit our website at Valuentum.com. At Domino's Pizza, cash flow from operations increased about 27% from levels registered two years ago, while capital expenditures expanded about 66% over the same time period.
Our discounted cash flow model indicates that Domino's Pizza's shares are worth between $45-$67 each. Domino's shares are currently trading north of $70, above the high end of the estimated fair value range, which is derived on the basis of Domino's future free cash flows and net balance sheet. We think Domino's represents a good example of how a firm can have a strong Economic Castle but still be overpriced from a valuation standpoint. The Economic Castle rating is based on its ROIC-less-WACC spread, while a company's valuation is based on how the market values that spread. The margin of safety around our fair value estimate is driven by the firm's LOW ValueRisk™ rating, which is derived from the historical volatility of key valuation drivers. The estimated fair value of $56 per share represents a price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio of about 22.6 times last year's earnings and an implied EV/EBITDA multiple of about 13.4 times last year's EBITDA. We think these valuation multiples are reasonable given the strength of Domino's franchise business model and the pace of its future free cash flow expansion, which is quite robust.
Our valuation model reflects a compound annual revenue growth rate of 5.1% during the next five years, a pace that is higher than the firm's 3-year historical compound annual growth rate of 4.7%. The revenue forecast is consistent with management's expectations of mid-to-high- single-digit revenue expansion, but modestly below the 6%-10% global retail sales guidance on the basis of its 3-year average (which is also below that target). Our valuation model reflects a 5-year projected average operating margin of 20.6%, which is above Domino's Pizza's trailing 3-year average. We think ongoing international franchise growth will have a positive impact on the company's profitability.
Beyond year 5, we assume free cash flow will grow at an annual rate of 2.9% for the next 15 years and 3% in perpetuity. For Domino's Pizza, we use a 9.3% weighted average cost of capital to discount future free cash flows. We think the long-term growth rate and discount rate are reasonable forecasts that fit the theoretical underpinnings of the DCF process.
Our discounted cash-flow process allows us to arrive at an absolute view of the firm's intrinsic value. However, we also understand the critical importance of assessing firms on a relative value basis, versus both their industry and peers. Many institutional money-managers -- those that drive stock prices -- pay attention to a company's price-to-earnings ratio and price-earning-to-growth ratio in making buy/sell decisions. With this in mind, we have included a forward-looking relative value assessment in our process to further augment our rigorous discounted cash-flow process. If a company is undervalued on both a price-to-earnings ratio and a price-earnings-to-growth ratio versus industry peers, we would consider the firm to be attractive from a relative value standpoint. We compare Domino's Pizza to peers Starbucks (NASDAQ:SBUX), Yum! Brands (NYSE:YUM), and McDonald's (NYSE:MCD), among others. Domino's valuation metrics are greater than both its peer and industry medians, not only over the near-term, but also based on normalized EV/EBITDA and PEG assessments. Shares are not cheap.
Our discounted cash flow process values each firm on the basis of the present value of all future free cash flows. Although we estimate the firm's fair value at about $56 per share, every company has a range of probable fair values that's created by the uncertainty of key valuation drivers (like future revenue or earnings, for example). After all, if the future was known with certainty, we wouldn't see much volatility in the markets as stocks would trade precisely at their known fair values. Our ValueRisk™ rating sets the margin of safety or the fair value range we assign to each stock. In the graph below, we show this probable range of fair values for Domino's Pizza. We think the firm is attractive below $45 per share (the green line), but quite expensive above $67 per share (the red line). The prices that fall along the yellow line, which includes our fair value estimate, represent a reasonable valuation for the firm, in our opinion.
We estimate Domino's Pizza's fair value at this point in time to be about $56 per share. As time passes, however, companies generate cash flow and pay out cash to shareholders in the form of dividends. The chart below compares the firm's current share price with the path of Domino's Pizza's expected equity value per share over the next three years, assuming our long-term projections prove accurate. The range between the resulting downside fair value and upside fair value in Year 3 represents our best estimate of the value of the firm's shares three years hence. This range of potential outcomes is also subject to change over time, should our views on the firm's future cash flow potential change. The expected fair value of $74 per share in Year 3 represents our existing fair value per share of $56 increased at an annual rate of the firm's cost of equity less its dividend yield. The upside and downside ranges are derived in the same way, but from the upper and lower bounds of our fair value estimate range.
In the spirit of transparency, we show how the performance of the Valuentum Buying Index has stacked up per underlying score as it relates to firms in the Best Ideas portfolio. Past results are not a guarantee of future performance.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051321:46
SYMBOL = DOW
The possibility for DOW to significantly boost its revenue growth and profitability lies within its Enlist product suite of agricultural chemicals/GMO technology.
While management touts its shift from commodity to specialty chemicals after the purchase of Rohm & Haas, we think the acquisition was an inefficacious use of owners’ profits.
As an owner of Dow, you can expect to lay claim to between $0.05 and $0.10 of cash flow for every dollar of revenue brought in.
This article focuses in at three drivers of corporate value at Dow Chemical (NYSE:DOW): revenue growth, profitability, and investment efficacy. Investors interested in a more in-depth of Dow are invited to download our recently-published 1% Focus Report on Dow (email sign up required).
Growth in the five-year rolling aggregate sales change (thick blue line) shows the ups and downs inherent in this business that is so tied to the larger business cycle. The past five years' revenue growth have been depressed in part due to continuing weakness in consumer end demand, but also due to divestitures the company has had to make to pay down debt incurred in the 2009 acquisition of specialty chemical firm, Rohm & Haas.
On conference calls, the management team talks about the higher growth potential of specialty chemicals, but our analysis suggests that most of the specialty business -- while growing faster than commodity chemicals -- is still not much of a growth story. The best hope Dow has for more rapid revenue growth comes from its Enlist product line of defoliant/defoliant resistant GMO seeds.
Dow's co-producer of the now-infamous defoliant Agent Orange, Monsanto (NYSE:MON), has transformed itself from a specialty chemical manufacturer into what might be called a biotechnology IP (intellectual property) firm.
At the core of its biotechnology juggernaut is a defoliant known commercially as "Round-Up" -- a bog standard agricultural chemical which, when sprayed on plants, blocks the plants' production of growth hormones, causing them to die.
This product would simply be another specialty chemical if it was not for parallel developments in genetic engineering. Monsanto's scientists realized that they could engineer the genetic material of certain important cash crops (soy, corn, and cotton in particular) so that the resulting seeds would be immune from the defoliant effect of Round-Up (these seeds are known as "Round-Up Ready").
Dow's Enlist product suite works in basically the same way as the Round-Up suite, but because it uses a different defoliant, will allow farmers to kill weeds that have evolved a natural resistance to Round-Up.
However, just because Dow has a product to compete against Monsanto's does not necessarily mean that it will succeed commercially. Monsanto has an almost monopolistic hold on the market for genetically modified seed technology, so Dow will be fighting an expensive, uphill battle against an entrenched competitor in its attempt to commercialize Enlist. If successful in this battle, there is a lot of upside, and Dow's owners stand to enjoy much more robust revenue growth over the next 5-10 years.
Our valuation screen likely picked up Dow due to a one-off boost to income during 2013. Dow had originally planned to sell its half of a joint venture to the Kuwaiti Petrochemical Industries Company (PIC) to partially finance the 2009 acquisition of Rohm & Haas. However, in the midst of the global economic meltdown, PIC backed out of the deal and left Dow scrambling to scrape up the money to buy Rohm & Haas (to which it had a contractual obligation to purchase).
Finally, in 2013, an arbitration resulted in PIC paying Dow $2.2 billion in cash. Those funds boosted Dow's Net Income and Owners' Cash Profits. Note, however, that after adjusting for this payment, Dow's 2013 OCP margin is only at the 6% level -- hardly higher than Dow's profit margin before the Rohm & Haas merger.
In our full report, we take a look at Dow's profits versus several other commodity and specialty chemical producers and find ample evidence that the firm could do a better job of converting revenues into profits.
We believe one possible key to better profitability at Dow lies in Enlist. Monsanto's transformation from a chemical manufacturer to an IP firm has allowed it to generate an OCP margin of 16% over the last 10 years -- a full five times greater than that of Dow's over the same period.
The active ingredient in the Enlist defoliant has been approved for use in Brazil and is on the verge of being approved in the U.S. This is important because those two countries represent the second-largest and largest markets for genetically modified agricultural commodities in the world.
Dan Loeb at Third Point Investments thinks Dow management has not been doing a good job at investing its shareholders' capital. This graph is a good demonstration of that contention. It tells us that, over the period covered, Dow has not been able to consistently increase its wealth at a rate faster than nominal GDP. In effect, Dow has been running to stand still for the past generation.
By far, the largest expansionary cash flow in the last generation was Dow's 2009 purchase of Rohm & Haas for roughly $15.5 billion. In the subsequent four-year period, the firm has only generated an estimated $6.3 billion in OCP; at current revenue and profitability levels, it would take nearly 10 years before this acquisition begins to generate cash flow for its owners.
In addition, the most attractive part of Rohm & Haas's business -- the agricultural chemicals business -- had already been acquired by Dow in 2001 for roughly $1 billion. Considering these points and others raised in our full report, we do not believe the 2009 acquisition was a wise use of owners' capital.
Because its expansionary expenditures are such a modest portion of its profits and are often cash inflows rather than outflows (i.e., it is selling off more assets than it is buying), a good guess for normalized Free Cash Flow to Owners (FCFO) margins for Dow is around 6%, judging by the recent past.
As Dow Chemical closes in on its 120th anniversary as a company, it finds itself in the midst of a major transition -- a reduction in its dependence on the commodity chemical business and an increase in emphasis on its specialty chemical line.
Our analysis of Dow indicates that hedge fund manager and acerbic letter writer, Daniel Loeb, is likely correct in his contention that Dow could stand to improve efficiency, but our view of his recommendation to split Dow into two firms -- one commodity producer and one specialty producer -- is mixed.
Dow is an interesting story -- especially with respect to its nascent GMO biotechnology business -- and a potentially attractive investment, though not one without a healthy degree of uncertainty.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014051322:45
SYMBOL = SWKS
SWKS has the highest combined Equities Lab Buzz, Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Value, and Cash Flow Score in its entire industry.
The stock appears undervalued by at least 20% based on its forward P/E, price to free cash flow, and price to cash flow.
The numerous fundamental green flags make SWKS a solid long-term buy.
Skyworks Solutions Inc. (NASDAQ:SWKS) offers products that are used in a very diverse range of markets including smartphones and tablets, Wifi connectivity, wireless infrastructure, aerospace and defense, automotive, and medical. Its products include amplifiers, diodes, filters, mixers, modulators, switches, and more. A detailed list can be found on the company website. The quality and diverse range of products offered has enabled the company to acquire big name customers such as Cisco (NASDAQ:CSCO), Ericsson (NASDAQ:ERIC), Foxconn (OTC:FXCOF), General Electric (NYSE:GE), Google (NASDAQ:GOOG) (NASDAQ:GOOGL), LG Electronics (OTC:LGEAF), Netgear (NASDAQ:NTGR), Nokia (NYSE:NOK), and Samsung (OTC:SSNLF).
We are bullish on this stock for multiple reasons that focus mainly on the company's fundamentals and how those fundamentals stack up to their industry. The reasons can be viewed below:
The Equities Lab Balance Sheet + Buzz + Income Statement + Value + Cash Flow Scores equal 38, which is the highest out of 157 companies (must have a market cap greater than $100 million) in its industry.
There have recently been large upwards revisions to the company's EPS estimates, indicating the street is becoming more bullish on the stock.
SWKS just started paying a dividend, which has a lot of room to grow.
The stock is highly undervalued based on its price to free cash flow per share and price to cash flow per share.
The company has no long-term debt, great margins, and other fundamental green flags.
The stock's P/E and forward P/E indicate it is trading at a bargain.
In Equities Lab, we have developed scores that touch on each areas of a company fundamentals. The Balance Sheet, Income Statement, Value, Cash Flow, and Buzz Score each measure a different aspect of the company's well being and are all out of 10. We developed these scores using back testing to ensure that stocks with higher scores outperformed stocks with lower scores on average. The screenshots and text below will explain each score.
SWKS stands out regarding these scores because it currently has the highest combined score out of 157 companies (must have a market cap greater than $100 million) in the semiconductors industry.
SWKS has an Equities Lab Buzz Score of 7 out of 10. The stock is awarded 1 point for each of the conditions it meets. Below is a screenshot of the conditions in the Buzz Score (If you have any questions regarding what these conditions are saying, please leave a comment):
The score is essentially a measure of bullish activity surrounding a stock. According to our backtest, shown below, stocks with high buzz scores (represented by the line in green) outperform stocks with low buzz scores (represented by the line in turquoise) on average. An in-depth page describing our backtest can be found here:
SWKS has an Equities Lab Income Statement Score of 9 out of 10. The score measures the health of a company's income statement. High scores indicate the company has a healthy and improving income statement. The backtest of companies with high Income Statement score versus companies with low Income Statement Scores looks much like the Buzz Score back test graph you see above. Below is a screenshot of the conditions in the Income Statement Score:
SWKS currently has an Equities Lab Cash Flow Score of 8 out of 10. Below is a screenshot of the conditions in the Cash Flow Score:
According to our backtest, shown below, stock's with high Cash Flow scores (represented by the line in green) outperform stocks with low Cash Flow Scores (represented by the line in turquoise). The significant difference in performance makes us confident that the Cash Flow score is a great indicator.
SWKS has a Balance Sheet Score of 9 out of 10. Below is a screenshot of the conditions in the Balance Sheet Score:
According to our data from AAII, analysts have aggressively revised their EPS estimates upwards over the past month. The estimate for 2014 is now 8% greater than it was one month ago, and the estimate for 2015 is 10% greater than it was 1 month ago. EPS in 2013 was 1.48, so analysts are expecting margins and sales to improve significantly in 2014.
In March of 2014, according to this press release, SWKS announced the paying of a quarterly dividend of $.11. The dividend of $.44/year currently represents a 1% yield, and that has a lot of room to grow. The estimated EPS for 2014 is $2.8, so the $.44 in dividend payments represents only a 15.7% payout ratio. Look for SWKS to announce numerous dividend increases over the next couple of years.
SWKS currently has a P/E ratio of 25.35 and a one year forward P/E of 15.2. The average one year forward P/E of semiconductor stocks with a market cap greater than $1 billion and a forward P/E less than 75 is 19.3. The average of 19.3 is 27% greater than SWKS' forward PE of 15.2, indicating SWKS may be undervalued.
SWKS currently has a Price to FCF per share of 20 and a Price to Cash Flow Per Share of 29.4. The average price to FCF per share in the semiconductors industry with market cap greater than $500 million is 71% greater at 34.1. The average price to cash flow per share in the semiconductors industry with a market cap greater than $500 million is 66% greater at 48.9. SWKS is able to generate cash flow and free cash flow significantly better than similar companies in its industry and may be undervalued because of it.
Given that SWKS is expected to grow at an above average rate over the next 5 years, we believe that the large disparity between the stock's price to cash flow, price to free cash flow, and P/E versus its industry average makes for a great buying opportunity.
Fundamental Green Flags
- SWKS has a quick ratio of 5.8, which ranks in the top 16% of its industry.
- SWKS has a liabilities per assets of .1, which ranks in the top 10% of its industry.
- No long-term debt.
- SWKS has an trailing 12 month net margin of 16.9%, which ranks in the top 13% of its industry. The table below displays how its trailing 12 month gross margin and net margins have been slowly improving over time.
- Shares outstanding have decreased over the past 12 months from 191 million to 188 million.
- Three year annualized sales growth of 18.7% ranks well above the industry average. The graph below displays the most recent reported quarterly sales over time. As you can see, sales have been on a consistent and aggressive incline since 2010.
In all, Skyworks Solutions Inc. offers value, growth, and great fundamentals. Some things that stand out about it are the fact that it has the highest combined Equities Lab buzz, income statement, value, cash flow, and balance sheet score out of all stocks in its industry. In addition, the stock may be undervalued by at least 20%, according to its forward P/E, price to cash flow, and price to free cash flow compared it its industry average. The company also has numerous other fundamental green flags. We recommend SWKS as a long-term buy, per the points discussed in this article.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014110416:35
SYMBOL = FOXA
Fox posts surprise increase in revenue
21st Century Fox Inc. posted a surprise increase in revenue for the September quarter as the entertainment company continued to benefit from strength at its film unit and cable networks.
Chairman and Chief Executive Rupert Murdoch said the strong results reflected sustained increases in affiliate fees as well as the box-office success of 'Dawn of the Planet of the Apes' and 'The Fault in Our Stars.'
Fox's Class A shares rose 2% after hours.
Overall, revenue increased 12% to $7.89 billion for the first quarter ended Sept. 30, while analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had projected a 12% decline to $6.25 billion.
Revenue at Fox's cable networks rose 15% to $3.23 billion, while the company's filmed entertainment posted a 17% increase to $2.48 billion. Fox's television revenue was flat at $1.05 billion.
Meanwhile, an increase in operating expenses, among other things, dented the company's profit for the quarter. Earnings declined to $1.04 billion, or 47 cents a share, from $1.26 billion, or 54 cents a share, a year earlier.
However, excluding items such as a gain stemming from British Sky Broadcasting Group PLC's sale of ITV shares and year-earlier gains from the company's participation in the BSkyB stock buyback program, earnings rose to 39 cents a share from 33 cents. Analysts had called for 36 cents a share.
Operating expenses climbed 14% to $5.05 billion.
21st Century Fox was formed last year from the split of News Corp into two companies. The company housing the entertainment businesses changed its name to 21st Century Fox, while the publishing assets, including The Wall Street Journal, retained the News Corp name. News Corp is slated to report its results on Wednesday.
21st Century Fox ended in August its brief pursuit of Time Warner Inc., a decision Mr. Murdoch at the time termed "resolute." Both entertainment conglomerates have said they are well-positioned without acquisitions. However, both companies also face challenges caused by ratings weaknesses at some of their flagship networks.
The bid was seen as a way for Fox to gain scale at a time when pay-TV distributors such as Comcast Corp. and AT&T Inc. are poised to get much bigger through their own pending acquisitions.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014110507:24
SYMBOL = NRG
NRG Energy cuts full-year profitability outlook
NRG Energy Inc. said its third-quarter profit jumped 41% as the power generator posted sharply higher revenue, but it lowered its guidance for the year citing a lack of summer weather events.
The company cut its outlook for Ebitda--a measure of profitability--to a range of $3.1 billion to $3.2 billion, down from its previous guidance of $3.2 billion to $3.4 billion.
"While NRG's financial performance was constrained in the third quarter by an absence of summer weather events, NRG's underlying performance across our wholesale and retail operations was quite strong," said Chief Executive David Crane. "I am confident that we are well positioned for a more robust financial outcome in 2015."
NRG Energy, one of the biggest electricity producers in the U.S., said in August that it would reorganize the company to focus more on the industry's high-growth segments. The reorganized company will consist of three main business lines: NRG Business, NRG Home and NRG Renew.
The company has been moving into alternative energy as its wholesale-power operation struggles amid low natural-gas prices.
In the latest quarter, NRG said it acquired North America's largest wind farm, the 947 megawatt Alta Wind facility located in California, for $870 million.
NRG also completed in April its acquisition of an Edison International unit's coal plants, wind farms and other assets out of bankruptcy in a $2.65 billion deal. Edison Mission sells electricity in unregulated markets and has struggled to make money through a prolonged period of low prices, weak power demand and rising costs at the unit's aging coal-fired power plants in Illinois.
For NRG, the acquisitions are just the latest in a string of purchases that have bulked up its fleet of conventional power plants and its retail power-sales business. In the first quarter, the company acquired residential solar company Roof Diagnostics Solar and the retail electricity business of Dominion Resources Inc.
For the quarter ended Sept. 30, NRG reported a profit of $168 million, or 48 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier profit of $119 million, or 36 cents a share.
Operating costs and expenses increased 36% to $4.02 billion.
Operating revenue increased 31% to $4.57 billion. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters recently expected a profit of 52 cents a share and revenue of $3.46 billion.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014110517:35
SYMBOL = NWS
News Corp profit, revenue increase
News Corp's net income rose in the Sept. 30 quarter, as growth in its book publishing, digital real estate and digital education units offset declines in its larger news and information services segment.
Overall, net income attributable to shareholders increased to $65 million, or 11 cents per share, from $27 million, or 5 cents per share, in the year-earlier period, the company said Wednesday.
Revenue increased about 4% to $2.15 billion. Analysts had expected News Corp to post earnings of 3 cents per share on revenue of $2.09 billion, according to FactSet.
At the news and information-services unit, which makes up the biggest share of sales, revenue declined 3%, with a 21% drop in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
The unit, which includes the company's newspaper holdings in Britain, Australia and the U.S., sustained continued declines in advertising revenue, but it also posted an increase in circulation revenue. Circulation revenue gains at The Wall Street Journal and the Times of London were bright spots, thanks to increased subscription prices.
At the small but growing digital real-estate services segment, revenue jumped 24% to $112 million from a year earlier. In late September, the company announced that it would acquire Move Inc., the third most-trafficked website network for property listings in the U.S., for $950 million.
News Corp also reported a 24% revenue increase on the year in its publishing segment, to $406 million, driven by the purchase of romance publisher Harlequin Enterprises and the continued popularity of the Divergent series by author Veronica Roth.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014110608:31
SYMBOL = DTV
DirecTV profit falls, but beats forecasts
DirecTV said its third-quarter earnings fell 13% as higher revenue in both the U.S. and Latin America was offset by unfavorable foreign-exchange rates.
AT&T Inc. agreed in May to acquire DirecTV, a deal that would make it a major player in pay television and increase its clout with media companies at a time when video consumption is moving online. The agreement came just months after Comcast Corp.'s $45 billion agreement to buy Time Warner Cable Inc. The deals show how the biggest companies in television and telecommunications are trying to bulk up to face a changing media landscape.
The companies' chief executives told Congress earlier this year that the $49 billion deal is the only way the two companies can stay competitive in the highly consolidated broadband and pay-TV industries.
In September, DirecTV's shareholders approved the acquisition. The company has said it expects the deal, which still requires U.S. regulatory approval, to close in the first half of next year.
For the quarter ended Sept. 30, net subscriber disconnections in DirecTV's U.S. business totaled 28,000, compared with 139,000 net additions a year earlier. The total subscriber base was about 20.2 million at the end of the quarter.
Revenue in the U.S. rose 5.4% to $6.5 billion, while average monthly revenue per subscriber improved to $107.27 from $102.37 a year earlier.
In Latin America, the company lost 119,000 net subscribers, compared with additions of 260,000 a year earlier. The company had a total of 12.4 million subscribers in the region and revenue rose 9.5% to $1.82 billion.
Overall, DirecTV reported a profit of $611 million, or $1.21 a share, versus $699 million, or $1.28 a share, a year before. Earnings included a pretax charge of $62 million related to the revaluation of assets in Venezuela.
Excluding items, earnings were $1.33 a share.
Revenue increased 6.3% to $8.37 billion.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected earnings of $1.30 a share on $8.3 billion in revenue.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014121207:10
SYMBOL = MET
MetLife to buy back $1 billion more in shares as ruling awaits
MetLife. Inc. said its board has approved another $1 billion purchase of its common stock, as the company expects to be named “systemically important” by a new panel of federal regulators and therefore potentially subject to stiff but yet-to-be-determined capital rules.
The nation’s largest U.S. life insurer by assets MET, -0.04%   said its board approved an increase in its authorization to repurchase its common stock as the company has nearly completed a $1 billion common stock buyback program that it initiated in June 2014.
Under the June program, a total of $967.1 million in MetLife common stock has been repurchased as of Dec. 11, the company said.
The company has told analysts in recent presentations that it is generating ample excess capital as it awaits designation as a potential “systemically important financial institution.”
MetLife Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steven A. Kandarian said in a news release that the company’s “approach to capital management remains cautious in light of regulatory uncertainty,” adding: “Our philosophy is that excess capital belongs to MetLife’s shareholders and we believe this new program is consistent with our prudent capital management strategy.”
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014122309:25
SYMBOL = RDN
Radian Group to sell financial-guaranty business for $810 million
Radian Group Inc. has agreed to sell its financial-guaranty business to Assured Guaranty Ltd. for $810 million in cash, a move that will allow Radian to focus on its mortgage insurance and real-estate markets.
The deal will add about $19.4 billion to Assured’s AGO, -0.23%  insured portfolio, bringing its total size to $68.3 billion of net par. Assured said it expects the deal to add to its per-share earnings and adjusted book value.
Radian RDN, -0.26%  also said that the sale will help it better comply with new financial requirements proposed by the Federal Housing Finance Agency for private mortgage insurers. The requirements are expected to be published next year. Radian expects the deal to boost its available assets by $790 million.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015011308:30
SYMBOL = RSH
Salus Capital offers RadioShack $500 million bankruptcy loan
Salus Capital Partners has offered RadioShack Corp. $500 million in bankruptcy financing, according to people familiar with the matter, a move that could increase the lender’s influence if the struggling retailer ends up in Chapter 11.
RadioShack US:RSH  hasn’t said it plans to seek bankruptcy protection, but the Fort Worth, Texas-based consumer electronics retailer is running out of cash after posting losses in each of the last 11 quarters. In September, it warned that it could be forced into bankruptcy court if it couldn’t raise new funds or get relief from lenders, including Salus, that are blocking its effort to close hundreds of stores.
Salus’s unsolicited offer for what is known as a debtor-in-possession loan, which companies use to fund their operations in bankruptcy, expires Thursday, the people said. The new debt would a replace a $585 million financing package the company first obtained in late 2013, some of which consists of credit lines dependent on the value of RadioShack assets, the people said.
As of Nov. 1, RadioShack had just $19.3 million in borrowing availability under that credit line, according to a regulatory filing.
Despite a rescue-financing package designed to fund the company through the holiday season and a round of cost-cutting announced in December, some observers believe a debt restructuring is likely. “There continues to be a high likelihood of a bankruptcy filing,” Fitch Ratings wrote in a note to clients last month.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015011309:17
SYMBOL = KBH
KB Home profit surges, sales rise above forecasts
KB Home said a hefty income tax benefit helped drive its profit sharply higher in the November quarter, while orders and average selling prices also improved.
KB said it has reversed a prior write-down of assets, which could be used to offset income taxes, resulting in a $824.2 million income tax benefit in the quarter.
Shares rose 3.6% in premarket trading.
Recovery in the housing market has been mixed, but orders and backlog in recent periods point to potentially better results down the line as the economy improves.
Overall, KB Home's profit for the quarter ended Nov. 30 rose to $852.8 million, or $8.36 a share, up from $28.1 million, or 31 cents a share, a year earlier.
Revenue grew 29% to $796 million, topping analysts expectations for $778.5 million in revenue.
The overall value of net orders--an indicator of the builders' future performance--increased 22% from the prior-year period to $587.4 million. The company's backlog as of Nov. 30 was 2,909 homes, a 14% increase from the same period a year earlier.
The overall average selling price rose 17% to $351,500 in the quarter, led again by the company's West Coast region, where prices were up 17%.
Deliveries increased 9% to 2,229 homes in the quarter.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015011618:24
SYMBOL = T
AT&T estimates some fourth-quarter charges
AT&T Inc. expects to post pretax charges of about $7.9 billion related to pensions and post-employment benefit plans and about $2.1 billion for the abandonment in place of certain assets for its fourth quarter.
The charge for the pensions and benefits reflects an actuarial loss. AT&T, along with about 30 other companies, in the past few years has switched to mark-to-market pension accounting to make it easier for investors to gauge plan performance.
With the switch, pension gains and losses flow into earnings sooner than under the old rules, which are still in effect and allow companies to smooth out the impact over several years.
Companies that switch to valuing assets at up-to-date market prices may incur more volatility in their earnings, but it offers a more current picture of a pension plan's health.
A year ago, AT&T posted a $7.6 billion pretax gain tied to pension accounting.
The charge for network assets follows AT&T's determination that certain copper assets won't be necessary to support future network activity, due to lower demand for legacy voice and data services and the move toward new technology.
Companies like AT&T and Verizon Communications Inc. have been replacing copper-based technologies in their networks with faster, Internet-based technologies that run over fiber-optic lines.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015012104:24
SYMBOL = TM
Toyota expects vehicle sales to slip this year
Toyota Motor Corp. hung on to its position as the world's top-selling auto maker last year, but said Wednesday it expects sales to slip this year, putting Volkswagen AG in a position to take the crown.
Toyota said it sold 10.23 million vehicles in 2014, up 3%, including cars and trucks from its Lexus, Daihatsu and Hino brands. That was slightly ahead of Volkswagen, which sold 10.14 million vehicles last year, up 4%. General Motors Co. came third, at 9.92 million, up 2%.
But Toyota said it expected sales to fall by 1% this year, to 10.15 million vehicles. Volkswagen and GM haven't released forecasts, but analysts say Volkswagen is likely to show continued gains, allowing it to take top spot, which Toyota has held for three straight years.
IHS Automotive, a research firm, forecasts sales of 10.07 million this year for the German car maker, compared with 9.51 million for Toyota. IHS includes slightly narrower vehicle categories and market coverage in its forecasts, accounting for the lower numbers.
Volkswagen, which passed the 10 million mark last year for the first time, has been expanding aggressively in China in an effort to unseat Toyota as the world's largest auto maker.
Toyota has held that position since 2012, when it took over the top spot from GM. Toyota has been helped by buoyant sales in North America, but the company's growth in China, the world's largest auto market, has lagged.
Volkswagen says its sales in China rose 12% to 3.68 million vehicles in 2014, while GM's China sales rose 12%, to 3.54 million. Toyota sold just over than a million cars in China last year, up 12.5%.
"My guess is that at some point VW does pass Toyota, simply because VW is a lot bigger than Toyota in China," said Christopher Richter, an analyst at CLSA.
But forecasts are complicated by a slowdown in sales growth in China. IHS expects sales to total 24.9 million vehicles this year, up 7%, but predicts that the rate of growth will slow from 15% in 2013 and 9% in 2014.
Other markets in which Volkswagen is strong, such as Brazil, have also struggled, while Southeast Asia, where Toyota is bigger, has been volatile, with pronounced weakness in Thailand.
Under President Akio Toyoda, who took over in 2009, Toyota has prioritized profitability over sales growth, after an expansionary phase resulted in overcapacity. Mr. Toyoda has pledged not to build any new plants before 2016.
"It's benefited them quite a bit not to have any expansion projects and to sweat the assets they already have," Mr. Richter said.
Following a plunge in the price of oil that has revived demand for pickup trucks and other gas-guzzling vehicles in the U.S., Toyota's sales could be held back by limits on its ability to ramp up production, Mr. Richter said.
Toyota also said it expected a 9% drop in sales in Japan, where the auto market hasn't fully recovered from an increase in the consumption tax last year.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015012108:05
SYMBOL = AMTD
TD Ameritrade's revenue rises less than expected
TD Ameritrade Corp. posted weaker-than-expected revenue for the December quarter as the average fee per transaction dropped, though market volatility spurred trading activity, leading average daily trades to grow by 11%.
TD Ameritrade--which is the largest U.S. online brokerage in terms of trading activity--said it was optimistic for the year and the company is seeing strong asset gathering in both retail and institutional channels. In the most recent quarter, the company posted net new assets of $18.8 billion, up 30% from a year earlier.
"Trading was at strong levels due to market volatility and investors continue to increase their usage of options, futures and mobile technology," said Chief Executive Fred Tomczyk.
For the first quarter, which ended Dec. 31, average daily client trades totaled 457,000, and total trades increased to 28.8 million, up from 26.1 million a year ago.
In all, the company reported a profit of $211 million, or 39 cents a share, up from $192 million, or 35 cents a share, a year ago. Revenue improved 9% to $819 million.
According to a poll by Thomson Reuters, analysts had projected per-share earnings of 39 cents and revenue of $832 million.
Asset-based revenue rose 11% to $451 million. Net interest revenue rose to $161 million, up 27% from a year earlier.
However, the average commission and transaction fee per trade fell to $12.45 from $12.56.
Shares of Ameritrade, which were inactive premarket, have declined about 2% in the past 12 months through Tuesday's close.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015012207:25
SYMBOL = LE
Lands' End forecasts disappointing holiday quarter
Lands' End Inc. on Thursday gave a disappointing outlook for its January quarter, citing weaker sales of cold-weather apparel during its peak holiday season.
For the period ending Jan. 30, Lands' End said it expects its earnings to fall 20% to 26% from the year-earlier period to between $34 million to $37 million.
On a per-share basis, the retailer forecast earnings of $1.06 to $1.16. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had been expecting $1.38 a share in earnings.
Lands' End said it expects merchandise sales and service to fall up to 5% from the year earlier to $505 million to $515 million. Sales in its retail segment are expected to fall between 16% to 18%, while currency volatility is expected to dent its overseas business.
Chief Executive Edgar Huber said the sportswear and accessories retailer was also hurt by mixed customer reactions to some of its women's apparel, including sweaters and knits.
Lands' End was spun off from Sears Holdings Corp. in April as Sears sought to focus on its core assets. Sears acquired Lands' End in 2002 for $1.9 billion.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015012306:56
SYMBOL = GE
GE profit rises, tops expectations
General Electric Co. said growth in its industrial segment again helped drive better-than-expected earnings in its fourth quarter, as the company continues a multiyear shift away from reliance on financial earnings and toward industrial growth.
The industrial conglomerate had warned investors last month that revenue and profit in its oil and gas unit could fall as much as 5% as the industry contracts. GE officials have warned that aggressive cost reductions could be coming.
With a large portion of its sales overseas, GE is also exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency, especially the euro.
"The environment remains volatile, but we continue to see infrastructure growth opportunities," said Chief Executive Jeff Immelt in a news release.
Mr. Immelt is leading GE through a massive portfolio transformation, selling assets that don't fit its image as a global infrastructure company including media, appliances and consumer finance, and investing in ones that do--like oil and gas, power generation and advanced manufacturing.
GE is in the process of splitting off its North American retail finance business, Synchrony Financial, a major step to shrinking GE Capital. At the same time it is bulking up industrial operations with the acquisition of the energy assets of France's Alstom SA--a $17 billion deal slated to close in mid-2015.
For the quarter ended Dec. 31, GE posted earnings of $5.15 billion, or 51 cents a share, up from $3.21 billion, or 32 cents a share, a year earlier. Operating earnings were 56 cents a share.
Revenue climbed 4% to $42 billion.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected per-share operating earnings of 55 cents and revenue of $42.16 billion.
Shares rose 0.5% in premarket trading Friday. Distribution of GE's earnings news release was delayed as the company's site appeared to be having technical problems.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015012907:28
SYMBOL = COP
ConocoPhillips swings to loss, cuts capex again
ConocoPhillips announced plans Thursday to pare its capital budget by another 15% as the exploration and production company swung to a loss in its fourth quarter amid tumbling crude oil prices.
ConocoPhillips in December was the first big U.S. oil producer to slash its 2015 capital spending, shaving 20% off its planned budget to deal with the plunging price of crude. The value of a barrel of oil has slid further since then as a flood of crude from U.S. shale continues to disrupt the global oil market.
ConocoPhillips said Thursday that it will cut its capital budget to $11.5 billion from $13.5 billion as it defers onshore drilling and exploration programs.
In the fourth quarter, ConocoPhillips' average realized price fell 19% to $52.88 per barrel. Meanwhile, its production level edged up to 1,567 million barrels of oil equivalent per day, excluding Libya.
ConocoPhillips has been selling noncore assets to focus on those with higher returns, such as U.S. shale formations, which have fueled the drilling boom. Like many energy companies in the U.S., ConocoPhillips is focusing the largest part of its investment on oil rock formations in North Dakota and Texas.
With oil prices in freefall, ConocoPhillips has said it would cut back on exploring for new sources of oil and gas, as well as on drilling in some shale formations in North America, including the Niobrara in Colorado.
Overall, ConocoPhillips reported a loss of $39 million, or three cents a share, compared with a profit of $2.5 billion, or $2 a share, a year earlier. Excluding special items, earnings were 60 cents a share compared to $1.40 a share a year earlier.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected a per-share profit of 59 cents.
In 2012, ConocoPhillips spun off its refining arm as Phillips 66 as part of a multiyear revamp aimed at improving the company's finances.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015012917:54
SYMBOL = BX
Blackstone's results exceed expectations
Blackstone Group LP, the world's largest private-equity firm, beat Wall Street's fourth-quarter earnings expectations, notching several full-year records for profitability and size that further distanced the New York firm from its closest competitors.
Blackstone said Thursday that it set all-time highs in 2014 in fundraising, cash invested, payouts out to investors in its funds, assets under management, the portion of profits available to share with stockholders as well as economic net income, an industry metric that includes unrealized gains as well as cash earnings.
Said Blackstone President Hamilton "Tony" James, "2014 was a record in just about everything for us."
Despite the superlatives scattered throughout Blackstone's results, the firm reported some fourth-quarter declines as it came up against a selloff in credit markets, lower values of energy holdings and a lucrative year-earlier period in its real-estate segment that Blackstone didn't match.
Blackstone said fourth-quarter profit of $551 million, or 90 cents a share, was 11% lower than a year earlier. Economic net income was $1.45 billion, or $1.25 a share, down from $1.54 billion a year earlier but above the 92 cents forecast by analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
Although Blackstone's diversification into credit, hedge funds and real estate has at times helped protect its results against lulls at its older takeover-driven segments, the firm's private-equity business and its soon-to-be-spun-out financial-advisory unit shone brighter, reporting economic-net-income gains of 95% and 72%, respectively, for the quarter. Meanwhile, economic net income fell at the credit and real-estate segments, by 57% and 38%, respectively.
A flood of deal profits and fees charged on the $290 billion mountain of money Blackstone manages enabled it to pay its richest dividend to date, both for a quarter and full year. The $2.12 per-share payout for 2014 translates to a haul in the neighborhood of $500 million for Stephen Schwarzman, Blackstone's co-founder and chief executive, who owns roughly 22% of the firm's shares.
Shareholders weren't the only ones to reap the benefits, however; Blackstone said it paid out $45 billion to investors in its funds in 2014.
The record dividend--the firm met its previous high mark after three quarters--helped propel Blackstone shares 8.2% last year against declines that ranged from 5.9% to 27% for its publicly traded competitors, such as KKR & Co. and Apollo Global Management LLC.
Blackstone shares have continued to tick higher this year, closing up 0.33%, or 12 cents, at $36.86 on Thursday, the latest in a series of all-time-high closes reached this week after years of trading well below the firm's 2007 initial-public-offering price of $31.
Increasingly larger dividends and the stock's recent rise have helped push Blackstone's total shareholder returns to 60% since the firm's first trading day in 2007 through Thursday. The S&P 500's total return is 58.6% over the same period.
Fee revenue rose 10% to $716 million in the quarter and 13% for the year to $2.7 billion.
Blackstone's share of fourth-quarter deal proceeds, or performance fees, was $1.32 billion, down from $1.69 billion a year earlier. For the year, Blackstone's slice of deal gains totaled $4.4 billion, up 23% from 2013.
During the period the firm sold United Biscuits Ltd. to Turkey's Yildiz Holding for about $3.5 billion and pared its holdings in Pinnacle Foods Inc., hotelier Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc., theme-park operator Merlin Entertainments PLC, television ratings firm Nielsen NV and oil explorer Kosmos Energy Ltd. by selling blocks of shares.
After those sales, Blackstone holds $14.1 billion of stock in its private-equity funds, which portends a steady stream of deal profits to come. The firm invested $26 billion in 2014, putting a record amount of cash to work despite the relative scarcity of the multibillion-dollar public-to-private buyouts on which Blackstone and its rivals made their names orchestrating.
"Looking forward, we see continued momentum across all of our businesses as the environment for both investing opportunistically and harvesting more seasoned assets remains attractive," Mr. Schwarzman said.
Blackstone reported assets under management of $290 billion, up from $266 billion a year earlier as each of the firm's four segments that manage money bulked up.
Blackstone's closest competitor by assets, Carlyle Group LP, said it managed about $203 billion as of Sept. 30. The Washington, D.C., firm is scheduled to report fourth-quarter results on Feb. 11. None of Blackstone's other competitors manage more than $200 billion, as of the end of September
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020207:43
SYMBOL = SYY
Sysco posts in-line quarterly earnings; offers plan to divest assets
Sysco Corp. SYY, +0.08% on Monday said fiscal second-quarter earnings came to $157.9 million, or 27 cents a share, down from $210.8 million, or 36 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. The food distributor said revenue was $12.09 billion, up from $11.24 billion, a year ago. Adjusted earnings per share for the most recent period were 41 cents a share. Analysts polled by FactSet had expected earnings of 41 cents a share on $11.93 billion in sales. Sysco, which is working on closing a proposed merger with US Foods, said it's reached a deal with Performance Food Group to sell 11 US Foods facilities. Sysco said it will present the divestiture plan to five commissioners at the Federal Trade Commission and seek their approval for it.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020218:49
SYMBOL = RSH
NYSE moves to delist RadioShack
The New York Stock Exchange said it is moving to delist the stock of RadioShack Corp. and will immediately suspend trading in the struggling consumer-electronics retailer’s shares.
The NYSE said in a press release Monday the decision to delist RadioShack’s stock US:RSH was made because the retailer doesn’t intend to submit a plan to regain compliance with the stock exchange’s listing requirements, which include an average market capitalization of at least $50 million over 30 consecutive trading days, or stockholders’ equity of at least that amount.
The Wall Street Journal reported on Sunday that hedge fund Standard General LP was in talks to serve as the lead bidder at a bankruptcy auction for RadioShack.
Separately, RadioShack said in a regulatory filing that it received on Jan. 27 a second notice of default on a credit agreement.
RadioShack, which is running out of cash after reporting losses in each of the last 11 quarters, was aiming to file for Chapter 11 protection as early as Monday, the Journal reported. But as of Sunday afternoon, the company and its advisers were still working out the details of an agreement with Standard General to serve as the so-called stalking horse at a court-supervised auction for RadioShack’s assets, the Journal reported.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020417:33
SYMBOL = VZ
Verizon nears $10 billion asset sale to Frontier
Verizon Communications Inc. is close to selling a package of wireline assets to regional telecommunications company Frontier Communications Corp. for around $10 billion, people familiar with the matter said.
The deal, which could be announced this week, would be the largest ever for Frontier FTR, +5.63%  , according to S&P Capital IQ. It also would be one of the largest in the U.S. so far this year, according to Dealogic.
Verizon VZ, -0.04%   is also close to a sale of a package of cellphone towers for around $5 billion, people familiar with that transaction said.
The wireline sale would pare back Verizon’s role selling telephone and Internet service to residential customers and businesses. The company is the largest U.S. wireless operator by subscribers and sees that market as the key to its future. Selling local telephone service also is highly regulated.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020507:37
SYMBOL = LAZ
Lazard soars past estimates
Lazard Ltd. said its profit surged as the firm posted lower operating expenses and higher revenue from its financial advisory business.
The results easily surpassed analysts' expectations.
Lazard's financial advisory operations had been a strong performer for the firm amid a robust market for deal making. In the most recent quarter, Lazard said its financial advisory operating revenue rose 14% to $359 million, and its strategic advisory segment revenue posted a 17% increase in revenue to $328 million.
The firm's assets under management stood at $197.1 billion at the end of the quarter, up 5.4% from a year earlier. The asset management business, meanwhile, posted $284 million in operating revenue, a decrease of about 3% from the prior-year quarter. Management fees were $259 million, up 9%.
Overall, the company reported earnings of $172.4 million, or $1.29 a share, up from $53.2 million, or 40 cents a share, a year earlier.
Net revenue, which excludes interest expense, rose 3.5% to $633.9 million.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected $1.06 a share in earnings and $616 million in revenue.
The firm's operating expenses fell nearly 20% to $434.3 million.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020417:43
SYMBOL = UBS
UBS faces new tax-evasion probe
Federal prosecutors have launched a new probe into whether Swiss bank UBS AG UBS, +0.03%  helped Americans evade taxes through investments largely banned in the U.S., according to people familiar with the investigation.
UBS, which paid $780 million in 2009 to settle a separate Justice Department tax-evasion probe, is in the cross hairs again for allegedly helping wealthy clients hide assets, this time through so-called bearer securities. These securities, which were largely phased out of the U.S. financial system beginning in 1982 because of their potential use in tax evasion and money laundering, function essentially like cash, allowing whoever holds the certificate to anonymously claim its value.
Prosecutors in the U.S. attorney’s office in Brooklyn are weighing evidence gathered with the Federal Bureau of Investigation to determine whether employees of the bank helped facilitate tax evasion or engaged in securities fraud, people familiar with the investigation said. Authorities are also trying to determine whether anyone at the bank engaged in criminal efforts to cover up the alleged conduct once it became more widely known about within the bank.
UBS was recently served with a subpoena from authorities related to the matter, according to people familiar with the case.
Prosecutors and FBI agents recently traveled to London to interview potential witnesses, the people said.The alleged practices under scrutiny at UBS hark back to an old-fashioned type of tax evasion. At issue is the marketing of bearer securities as an investment to American clients, a financial tool whose use U.S. authorities largely ended because of its potential for abuse. Bearer securities were once popular because they were preferable to bulk cash payments, but a 1982 law imposed a variety of sanctions and tax penalties that made it very difficult to use or deposit such a certificate at a U.S. bank.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020508:30
SYMBOL = S
Sprint writes down brand name by $1.9 billion
Sprint Corp. wrote down the value of its brand name by $1.9 billion in its December quarter, helping drag the wireless carrier to a wider loss than a year ago.
Still, Sprint lost fewer of the industry's most lucrative subscribers in the period. Sprint said it lost a net 19,000 retail postpaid subscribers in the quarter, compared with 336,000 postpaid customers in the previous quarter and 69,000 a year earlier.
Sprint is in the midst of a turnaround, led by new Chief Executive Marcelo Claure, after posting a string of losses in recent years as customers have left its network. The carrier has been dogged by a network whose quality is worse than its rivals' and cellphone pricing plans that Mr. Claure has called confusing.
Mr. Claure took over in August, just as Sprint was abandoning plans to acquire T-Mobile US Inc. The company lost customers for years because of a reputation for poor service quality, then because of the shutdown of its aging Nextel network, and more recently because of a massive network overhaul that has resulted in more dropped calls in areas where construction is taking place. Last year, the company announced plans to cut 2,000 jobs.
For the quarter ended Dec. 31, Sprint reported a loss of $2.38 billion, or 60 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier loss of $1.04 billion, or 26 cents a share.
The quarter included a noncash impairment charge of $2.1 billion to write down the value of its brand name and to reduce the carrying value of wireline network assets.
Revenue fell 2% to $8.97 billion.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected a per-share loss of 24 cents and revenue of $8.68 billion.
Sprint's total contract customer turnover rate was 2.3%, compared with 2.18% in the previous quarter and 2.07% a year earlier.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014120517:52
SYMBOL = Z
Zillow losses widen on Trulia expenses
Zillow Inc. said its third-quarter loss widened on expenses related to the real estate portal's pending acquisition of Trulia Inc., masking continued growth in average monthly users and revenue.
Zillow's pending deal for Trulia, initially valued at about $3.5 billion when it was announced in July, would combine two of the biggest names in the fast-growing market for online real estate information, if approved by antitrust regulators.
In September, the companies said the Federal Trade Commission made a "second request" for information about the pending merger, a move that paved the way for a detailed look at whether the transaction could harm competition.
In the latest period, Zillow reported its average monthly users rose to 86 million, up 41% from 61.1 million a year earlier and 6% from 81.1 million during the second quarter. Visits from mobile devices soared 70% from a year earlier. The company continued to add Premier Agent advertisers, while average revenue per advertiser increased 32%.
Overall, Zillow reported a loss of $16 million, or 40 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier loss of from $1.2 million, or three cents a share. The latest period included 33 cents a share for costs related to the pending Trulia deal. Excluding such one-time items, earnings were 13 cents, compared with a year-earlier loss of four cents. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected per-share earnings of eight cents.
Revenue surged 66% to $88.6 million, edging above expectations for $87 million to $88 million
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014111223:27
SYMBOL = HAS
Hasbro in early talks to buy DreamWorks
Hasbro Inc. HAS, +0.65%  is in early talks to buy DreamWorks Animation SKG DWA, +2.05%  , in a deal that would bring an animation studio that just recently began diversifying beyond the big screen under the fold of a major toy maker, according to people familiar with the matter.
A combination of the two companies could accelerate efforts at each to move beyond their core businesses.
DreamWorks Animation has expanded into consumer products in recent years but lags behind Walt Disney Co. DIS, -0.27% and Hasbro had just changed tack on its entertainment business, selling off some of its stake in the Hub cable network with Discovery Communications Inc. DISCA, -0.33%  
Hasbro, which has been contemplating such a deal for years, has clout with big retailers that DreamWorks could benefit from, too, one person familiar with the talks said.
News of the possible merger comes about six weeks after reports emerged that the Japanese telecom giant SoftBank Corp. 9984, -0.65% SFTBF, +0.00%  was in talks to acquire the animation studio. However, those talks cooled shortly after reports first surfaced
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014111709:35
SYMBOL = AGN
Actavis to buy Allergan In $66 billion deal
Actavis PLC agreed to buy Allergan Inc. in deal that values the Botox maker at $66 billion.
The deal is seen helping shield Allergan AGN, +3.00%   from a hostile takeover from the team of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. VRX, +0.61%  and activist investor William Ackman.
Under the deal, Actavis ACT, -0.07%  will swap $129.22 in cash and 0.3683 Actavis shares for each Allergan share. Based on the closing price Friday, the transaction values Allergan at about $219 a share. The combination will create one of the top 10 global pharmaceutical companies by sales revenue, with combined annual pro forma revenue of more than $23 billion anticipated in 2015.
The transaction has been unanimously approved by the boards of Actavis and Allergan, and it is supported by the management teams of both companies.
Actavis said it anticipates that the expected permanent financing structure, consisting of a combination of new equity and debt, will support an investment grade rating and provide long-term financing flexibility.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014111708:04
SYMBOL = HAL
Halliburton to acquire Baker Hughes in $34.6 billion deal
Halliburton Co. agreed to buy rival Baker Hughes Inc. in a stock-and-cash deal valued at $34.6 billion, ending weeks of discussions and merging the second- and third-largest oil-field services companies in the world.
The deal, seen helping the companies contend with falling oil prices, comes after weeks of discussions that turned hostile. The Wall Street Journal reported last week that Halliburton HAL, -0.12%  and Baker Hughes BHI, -0.77%  were in talks for a possible tie-up. On Friday, Halliburton moved to overthrow the Baker Hughes board after discussions broke down.
Tensions between the two companies appeared to have eased with the deal. “We envision a combined company capable of achieving opportunities that neither company would have realized as well — or as quickly — on its own,” Martin Craighead, chairman and CEO of Baker Hughes, said in a news release.
Halliburton’s offer of $78.62 a share, a 31% premium to Baker Hughes’s closing price Friday, has an enterprise value of $38 billion.
“The stockholders of Baker Hughes will immediately receive a substantial premium and have the opportunity to participate in the significant upside potential of the combined company,” said Dave Lesar, chairman and CEO of Halliburton. Lesar will continue as CEO of the new company.
Upon the deal’s completion, expected in the second half of 2015, Baker Hughes shareholders will own about 36% of the combined company. The new company will have a combined board of 15 members, including three from the Baker Hughes board.
Achieving a friendly agreement was important for a deal that is likely to face antitrust scrutiny. Skeptical regulators can be harder to win over without a willing merger partner also eager to persuade the government to bless the deal.
If required by regulators, Halliburton said it would divest businesses that generate up to $7.5 billion in revenues, and would pay a $3.5 billion termination fee if the transaction fails due to regulatory problems.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014112708:29
SYMBOL = KO
Coca-Cola, SABMiller strike deal to create African bottling company
SABMiller PLC and Coca-Cola Co. said they would combine soft-drink bottling operations in southern and eastern Africa, in a deal that reinforces the U.K. brewer’s growing interest in nonalcoholic beverages.
A new company, Coca-Cola Beverages Africa, will serve 12 countries and supply 40% of all Coca-Cola volumes in Africa, SAB and Coke said on Thursday. SAB SAB, -1.27%  will hold 57% of the new business and Coke KO, -0.43%  will own 11.3%. The remainder will be owned by Gutsche Family Investments, currently a major shareholder in Coke’s African bottling operations.
As part of the deal, Coke is paying $260 million for the worldwide rights to SAB’s Appletiser soft-drink brand and the rights to a further 19 nonalcoholic brands in Africa and Latin America.
Atlanta-based Coke is in the middle of a cost-cutting drive amid falling soda sales in many of its key markets, especially North America. The company last year negotiated a merger between seven separate Spanish Coca-Cola bottlers in a bid to improve efficiency.
Coca-Cola Beverages Africa will have annual revenue of $2.9 billion, making it the biggest Coke bottler in Africa. Phil Gutsche, current chairman of Gutsche Family Investments, will head the new company, which will be based in Port Elizabeth, South Africa.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014121616:59
SYMBOL = CUB
Cubic to buy DTech for up to $114.5 million
Cubic Corp. said Tuesday that it would buy military communications specialist DTech Labs, Inc. for up to $114.5 million.
The deal will expand Cubic's $400 million-a-year mission systems business, and accelerate expansion of its defense business at a time when most rivals face another year of shrinking military sales.
The recent passing of the Pentagon's budget for fiscal 2015 has helped stabilize the outlook for military spending, with the final quarter of the year set to be the strongest for merger and acquisition activity in the sector.
San Diego-based Cubic generated 57% of its $1.4 billion sales in fiscal 2014 from defense, with the balance from its transport division. Cubic also runs MetroCard in New York and electronic transit card systems in other cities including Chicago and London.
Sterling, Va.-based DTech provides secure communications systems for the military, first responders and corporate executives and specializes in leveraging commercial technology, a route that is favored by the Pentagon in an effort to cut costs and foster innovation. It is also active in supplying special operations forces, another growth area for Cubic.
"DTech is the first step in our near-term strategy to build a niche $100-200 million C4ISR business," said Cubic Chief Executive Officer Bradley Feldmann in a statement.
Cubic also specializes in military training, one of the few sweet spots for defense contractors squeezed by budget pressures. The military is opting for more virtual and game-based training rather than costlier live-action exercises.
John Thomas, Cubic's chief financial officer, said at a recent investor event that it was looking for one or two opportunistic acquisitions a year, including overseas deals as international business accounts for half its sales.
Cubic already provides virtual training for the Navy's new littoral combat ship, and plans to pursue work on a proposed new drone for the maritime service.
The proposed deal would be the company's third this year and the largest since it bought Abraxas Corp., a national security specialist, for $124 million four years ago.
Cubic bought a small Austin, Texas-based game-training firm called Intific earlier this year. While the deal was dilutive to earnings, it came with a government-funded research budget that effectively doubled Cubic's internal development spending.
The company said DTech would be accretive to earnings in fiscal 2016.
Shares of Cubic have climbed sharply over the past three months and closed at $51.59 Monday, giving it a market capitalization of $1.4 billion.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014122207:52
SYMBOL = CZR
Caesars Entertainment to acquire Caesars Acquisition
Caesars Entertainment Corp. CZR, +0.09% announced an agreement to acquire Caesars Acquisition Co. CACQ, -0.02% in an all-stock deal, which would create a gaming company with a combined $3.2 billion in market capitalization. As part of the agreement, shareholders of Caesars Acquisition will receive 0.664 shares of Caesars Entertainment, which based on Friday's closing prices would be worth $8.96 a share, for each Caesars Acquisition stock they own. That's below Friday's closing price of $9.45 for Caesars Acquisition's stock. Caesars Entertainment shareholders will own 62% of the combined company, while the merged company will be controlled by affiliates of private-equity companies Apollo Global Management and TPG Capital. The acquisition will help support the proposed restructuring of Caesars Entertainment subsidiary CEOC. The shares of Caesars Acquisition and Caesars Entertainment are both halted while the merger news is disseminated. They have lost 22% and 37%, respectively, this year through Friday.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015010816:56
SYMBOL = ABBV
AbbVie predicts sharp increase in earnings
AbbVie Inc. predicted sharply higher earnings for the new year, driven by rheumatoid-arthritis drug Humira and the launch of its new hepatitis C virus treatment.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration last month approved the pharmaceutical company's Viekira Pak, an all-oral cocktail of several drugs that showed strong success in treating the liver disease in clinical trials.
The treatment from AbbVie competes with Sovaldi and Harvoni from Gilead Sciences Inc . Each of the three drugs costs more than $80,000 per patient for a 12-week regimen, and the battle for supremacy in the fast-growing market has intensified with the pharmacy benefit managers taking sides and giving preferred status to the various treatments.
Abbvie said Thursday that it would further refine its guidance as the drug launch progresses. The company guided for earnings, excluding items, of $4.25 to $4.45 a share, in line with the consensus estimate of $4.33 a share from analysts polled by Thomson Reuters. The midpoint of that estimate marks a jump of more than 30% over the company's 2014 guidance.
The company added its outlook also considers an expected sales decline from several products, including AndroGel and the remainder of the lipid franchise, due to generic competition.
AbbVie walked away last year from $54 billion agreement to buy Shire PLC amid U.S. regulatory pressure over so-called inversion deals. The structure of the AbbVie-Shire merger would have enabled Illinois-based AbbVie to enjoy a lower tax burden by relocating to the U.K.
Pharmaceutical companies in general have experienced sales pressures as they lose patent exclusivity to big-selling drugs. For its part, AbbVie has been looking to lessen its reliance on Humira, which was the top-grossing prescription medicine of 2013 and was on pace to keep the title last year. The drug is slated to start losing its patent protection by the end of 2016.
AbbVie, which was spun off from Abbott Laboratories about two years ago, intends to offer more detailed guidance when it reports quarterly results on Jan. 30.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015012117:19
SYMBOL = KMI
Kinder Morgan CEO to step down in June
Kinder Morgan Inc. said Rich Kinder intends to transition out of the CEO role in June and will become executive chairman.
President and Chief Operating Officer Steven Kean, who will succeed Mr. Kinder, had said at a December conference that he would eventually assume the role, though there was no sign at that point that the move was happening soon.
The personnel changes come as the pipeline company also disclosed plans to acquire assets in the prolific Bakken Shale from Harold Hamm, the chief executive of Continental Resources Inc., who has dominated headlines in recent months for his contentious, and expensive, divorce proceedings.
That Bakken acquisition is worth about $3 billion, including the assumption of debt, and includes the firm Hiland Partners and its crude oil gathering and transportation pipelines assets, primarily in North Dakota and Montana.
Kinder KMI, -1.64%  also released its first quarterly financial report since consolidating its vast oil-and-gas assets into a single publicly traded company in late November, showing its fourth-quarter profit dropped sharply, partly thanks to asset write-downs, while revenue ticked up. In all, Kinder Morgan reported a fourth-quarter profit of $126 million, or eight cents a share, down from $338 million, or 33 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding asset write-downs, merger-related expenses and other items, earnings rose to 60 cents from 45 cents. Revenue increased 2% to $3.95 billion.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected per-share profit of 34 cents and revenue of $4.3 billion.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015012607:07
SYMBOL = POST
Post to acquire MOM brands in $1.15 Billion cereal merger
Post Holdings Inc. has agreed to buy privately-held MOM Brands Co. for $1.15 billion in a deal that will add Berry Colossal Crunch and Frosted Mini Spooners to Post’s trove of cereal brands.
The deal came as Post POST, +2.10%  gave a better-than-expected outlook for its December quarter on strength in its ready-to-eat cereal and egg, cheese and potato segments.
Under the terms of the deal, Post will pay MOM $1.05 billion in cash and issue its owners 2.45 million shares of Post stock.
St. Louis-based Post has been on a spending spree to diversify its business since its spinoff from Ralcorp Holdings Inc. in 2012, as Americans are eating less cereal in favor of lower-carbohydrate breakfasts that they can consume on the go.
Last year, Post bought PowerBar and Musashi brands and private label peanut butter maker American Blanching Co.
The deal with MOM will add hot cereals and ready-to-eat cereals such as Golden Puffs and Cinnamon Toasters to Post’s Honey Bunches of Oats, Grape-Nuts and Honeycomb cereals
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015013008:05
SYMBOL = TSN
Tyson Foods Inc. posted a better-than-expected 24% jump in revenue in its December quarter as sales in its packaged food segment surged.
The results topped Wall Street expectations.
Tyson, the biggest U.S. chicken processor and a leading pork producer, has benefited in recent months from strong consumer demand for chicken, as well as sharp price gains in beef and pork.
For its year ending in September, Tyson said it expects demand for chicken to remain high despite a growing supply, while greater grain supplies should result in lower input costs.
The company has also expanded more into packaged meats with its $7.7 billion acquisition of Hillshire Brands Inc., the maker of Jimmy Dean sausages and Ball Park hot dogs.
Packaged foods usually offer higher margins than what Tyson already sells to restaurants and other food-service businesses.
For its fiscal first quarter ended Dec. 27, the company reported a profit of $309 million, or 74 cents a share, up from $254 million, or 72 cents a share, a year ago. Excluding merger and integration costs, among other items., per-share earnings were 77 cents.
Sales grew 23.5% to $10.82 billion.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had projected earnings of 73 cents a share and revenue of $10.4 billion.
Chicken segment sales grew 4.7% to $2.78 billion on a 3.1% increase in volume. Beef sales grew 17.6% to $4.39 billion, as a 20.9% increase in average prices offset a 2.7% drop in volume.
Pork sales grew 8.1% to $1.54 billion, benefiting from a 1.1% volume increase and a 7% increase in prices.
Prepared-food sales more than doubled from a year ago to $2.13 billion as volume grew 89.5% %
The company reaffirmed its full-year earnings outlook.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015012808:29
SYMBOL = HCBK
Hudson City Bancorp profit falls, but tops views
Hudson City Bancorp Inc. HCBK, +0.32% said its fourth-quarter earnings fell 15% as the regional lender's results were again hit by a decline in the average balance of interest-earning assets and continued low interest rates.
The Paramus, N.J.-based lender's pending acquisition by M&T Bank Corp. MTB, +0.25% has hit a series of snags over the past two-plus years after the Federal Reserve aired concerns about Buffalo, N.Y.-based M&T's money-laundering controls. Eventually, the central bank ordered changes, which M&T has been working to enact.
M&T Chief Financial Officer Rene Jones last week on an earnings call with analysts said the two lenders were committed to their merger. The banks in December agreed to again extend the deadline for their deal, this time until April 30.
Regional banks, including Hudson City and M&T, have grappled with persistently low interest rates that have dented interest income.
Overall, the parent of Hudson City Savings Bank reported a profit of $39.1 million, or eight cents a share, down from $45.8 million, or nine cents a share, a year earlier. Net interest income decreased 36% to $87.2 million.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected per-share profit of four cents.
Non-interest income soared to $47.5 million from $13.5 million, boosted by $45.9 million in gains from the sale of $1.68 billion of mortgage-backed securities, compared with gains of $11.1 million a year earlier.
Hudson City posted a net interest margin of 1.01%, down from 1.47% a year earlier.
As of Dec. 31, total deposits decreased 9.7% from a year earlier to $19.38 billion, amid the company's decision to maintain lower deposit rates.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015012619:36
SYMBOL = YHOO
Yahoo shareholders await plan for Alibaba assets
Marissa Mayer on Tuesday is expected to unveil her plan for Yahoo Inc.'s valuable Asian assets, an announcement that could determine whether the embattled chief executive buys herself more time with shareholders or invites a bitter proxy battle that could threaten her job.
The Internet company plans to update shareholders on its remaining stakes in Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Yahoo Japan when it announces fourth-quarter earnings. After selling shares in Alibaba's initial public offering, Yahoo still owns 15% of the Chinese e-commerce giant and 35.5% of Yahoo Japan, which together make up the vast majority of Yahoo's current market capitalization of $46.4 billion.
Investors are hoping Yahoo has come up with a scheme to extract value from those assets while avoiding a tax bill of billions of dollars. Finance chief Ken Goldman told investors last October he's "optimistic" the company could avoid paying a full tax rate of 35% or more, as it has with all previous sales of Alibaba shares.
Activist investor Starboard Value LP has pressured Yahoo to minimize those taxes, calling for the company to essentially break itself into two distinct parts, one for its core business of Internet properties and the other for its holdings in Alibaba and Yahoo Japan. The investor advised spinning out that core business, leaving the parent company just holding the Asian assets.
This would leave Alibaba and others with the ability to acquire the Asian assets with a smaller tax bill than if Yahoo sold the assets out of the parent company. Such a split could include several other wrinkles, including the possibility that the spun-off core business could merge with AOL Corp., as Starboard has suggested. RBC Capital Markets analyst Mark Mahaney estimates Yahoo's core business is worth about $6.4 billion, compared with AOL's $3.8 billion current market value.
Jacqueline Reses, Yahoo's merger chief, ruled out the possibility of an AOL acquisition in comments she made at a technology conference last year. When asked if she thought AOL would be acquired in the next two years, she said, "Not by us."
Starboard said it's opposed to another option called a cash-rich split-off. In that transaction, Alibaba would create an entity that is worth roughly the same amount as Yahoo's stake in Alibaba. At least one-third of the value of that entity would need to be comprised of operating businesses and the remaining could be straight cash. This would allow Yahoo to trade the stake for mostly cash.
While a cash-rich split-off would also save significantly on the taxes Yahoo would pay if it just sold the shares back to Alibaba, Starboard says it would be less efficient than the spin options.
A lower tax bill would have a "material" impact on the value of Yahoo's business, Mr. Mahaney said. "For every 5 percentage points they can reduce [from the tax bill], it adds about $2 billion in value to Yahoo's market cap, or about $2 a share," Mr. Mahaney said.
"There are many people who think they can take that tax rate and cut it in half," he added.
Placating investors could buy Ms. Mayer more time to turn around the company's struggling display-ad business, which has declined in seven of the past eight consecutive quarters. Analysts expect total revenue in the fourth quarter to decline to $1.19 billion, excluding commissions paid to search partners, according to a mean of estimates by Thomson Reuters.
The CEO told employees in a memo earlier this month she aims to grow display-ad revenue in 2015, a goal she's likely to echo on a call with analysts Tuesday.
While revenue from desktop display ads continues to shrink, Yahoo has attempted to offset those declines by investing in newer ad businesses like mobile, social and video. The company has said it predicts Tumblr, the blogging platform it acquired for $1.1 billion in 2013, to contribute $100 million in sales this year.
Ms. Mayer attempted to accelerate Yahoo's efforts in mobile ads this year by reorganizing management and promoting Prashant Fuloria, a veteran Internet product manager who joined Yahoo last year when it bought his former employer, mobile-ad startup Flurry, to oversee all ad products at the company.
Yahoo is poised to surpass Twitter Inc. to become the third-largest mobile ad company in 2015, according to eMarketer Inc.
But if Ms. Mayer fails to deliver a tax deal that pleases investors, she could find these efforts complicated by a distracting proxy battle. Starboard founder Jeffrey Smith, who succeeded in replacing the entire board of directors at Darden Restaurants after a proxy fight last year, has threatened to mount a challenge to Ms. Mayer.
Ms. Mayer's lack of progress in turning around Yahoo could make her susceptible in such a fight, said Brian Wieser, an analyst at Pivotal Research Inc.
"The current management team really doesn't have much to stand on in terms of pointing to recent past successes," Mr. Wieser said. "I think most investors will be supportive of what Starboard is trying to do here."
Starboard hasn't disclosed the exact size of its Yahoo stake, but said it is a "significant" holder.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015012709:26
SYMBOL = LSCC
Lattice to buy Silicon Image for $600 million
Lattice Semiconductor Corp. has agreed to buy fellow semiconductor producer Silicon Image Inc. in a deal with an equity value of about $600 million, the companies said Tuesday morning.
Lattice LSCC, +0.31%  will pay $7.30 a share in cash for Silicon Image, a price that represents a premium of nearly 24% over Silicon Image’s SIMG, -0.02%  closing price Monday.
The companies expect the deal to close by the end of March.
Lattice said it sees the deal expanding its opportunities in consumer, communications and industrial markets. The company also expects $32 million in synergies that are expected to be immediately accretive to per-share earnings.
Under the terms of the deal, a Lattice subsidiary must commence a tender offer pursuant to the deal within 10 business days, and it must remain open for at least 20 days following that. Remaining shares will be bought in a second-step merger at the same price.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020223:50
SYMBOL = SPLS
Staples, Office Depot in advanced talks to merge
Staples Inc. and Office Depot Inc. are in advanced talks to combine, according to people familiar with the matter, in what would be a major step toward consolidating the retail market for pens, paper and other office supplies.
The price and structure of the proposed deal couldn't be learned. Staples has a market value of about $11 billion, while Office Depot, which in 2013 absorbed rival OfficeMax, has a market value of about $4 billion. There is no guarantee a deal will be reached, the people cautioned.
Together, the two companies have roughly 4,000 stores and annual sales of more than $35 billion. A combination of the two likely would get a close look from antitrust regulators, who in 1997 sued successfully to block the same proposed merger, bankers and analysts have said.
But some analysts say the retail landscape has changed sufficiently since then, citing the rise of online retailers like Amazon.com Inc. and increased competition from big-box chains like Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target Corp., which all sell office supplies now, too. In approving the union of Office Depot and OfficeMax, regulators noted that consumers have more choices than ever about where to buy office binders, paper, staplers and the like.
"The current competitive dynamics are very different," the Federal Trade Commission wrote in that review. "The Commission's investigation shows that today's market for the sale of consumable office supplies is broader" than it was in 1997.
A deal likely would be cheered by activist investor Starboard Value LP, which owns about 6% of Staples and 10% of Office Depot, and in January urged the companies to consider a merger. In a letter to Staples Chief Executive Ronald Sargent, Starboard said the cost savings from such a combination could more than double the combined company's operating profit.
Starboard hinted it might run a proxy fight for board seats at Staples if the company didn't consider a combination. The window to nominate directors opened this week and closes in March.
Merger talks between Staples and Office Depot highlight the pressures facing brick-and-mortar retail stores as consumers shift how and where they shop. Staples' North American same-store sales haven't risen since 2007, and Office Depot's haven't risen since 2006.
Meanwhile, both companies have been closing U.S. stores and shifting others to smaller formats, while pushing their online offerings. Staples recently said it would add Google Inc. executive Paul-Henri Ferrand to its board, citing his experience in e-commerce and technology.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020407:16
SYMBOL = SPLS
Staples to buy Office Depot for $6.3 billion
Staples Inc. agreed to buy Office Depot Inc. for $6.3 billion, taking a major step toward consolidating the retail market for pens, paper and other office supplies.
Under the deal, Office Depot shareholders will swap each share for $7.25 in cash and 0.2188 Staples shares. The deal values Office Depot at $11 a share, a premium of 44% over the closing price of Office Depot shares as of Feb. 2, when The Wall Street Journal reported the talks.
Together, the two companies have roughly 4,000 stores and annual sales of more than $35 billion. A combination of the two likely would get a close look from antitrust regulators, who in 1997 sued successfully to block the same proposed merger, bankers and analysts have said.
But some analysts say the retail landscape has changed sufficiently since then, citing the rise of online retailers like Amazon.com Inc. and increased competition from big-box chains like Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target Corp., which all sell office supplies now, too.
Staples said Wednesday that it has been in talks to buy Office Depot since September. Staples expects the deal to result in about $1 billion in synergies by the third full year after closing, which is expected by the end of the year.
The deal would likely be cheered by activist investor Starboard Value LP, which owns about 6% of Staples and 10% of Office Depot, and in January urged the companies to consider a merger. In a letter to Staples Chief Executive Ronald Sargent, Starboard said the cost savings from such a combination could more than double the combined company's operating profit.
Merger talks between Staples and Office Depot highlight the pressures facing brick-and-mortar retail stores as consumers shift how and where they shop. Staples' North American same-store sales haven't risen since 2007, and Office Depot's haven't risen since 2006.
Meanwhile, both companies have been closing U.S. stores and shifting others to smaller formats, while pushing their online offerings.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020419:47
SYMBOL = ANTM
Anthem Hacked in ‘Sophisticated’ Attack on Customer Data
Anthem Inc., the second biggest U.S. health insurer by market value, said hackers obtained data on tens of millions of current and former customers and employees in a sophisticated attack that has led to a Federal Bureau of Investigation probe.
The information compromised includes names, birthdates, Social Security numbers, street and e-mail addresses and employee data, including income, Anthem said in an e-mail. The company will notify customers who were affected and provide credit and identify-theft monitoring services for free, Chief Executive Officer Joseph Swedish said in a letter to members.
“As soon as we learned about the attack, we immediately made every effort to close the security vulnerability, contacted the FBI and began fully cooperating with their investigation,” Anthem said. The Indianapolis-based company, formerly known as WellPoint, didn’t provide information on how the breach occurred or when it was discovered.
The Anthem breach is the biggest in the health-care industry since Chinese hackers stole Social Security numbers, names and address from 4.5 million patients of Community Health Systems Inc., the second-biggest for-profit hospital chain, last year. The attack is on a similar scale to hacks of customer data from Target Corp. and Home Depot Inc. last year in terms of the number of people affected.
“This attack is another reminder of the persistent threats we face,” U.S. Representative Michael McCaul, a Texas Republican who leads the Homeland Security Committee, said in a statement.
Computer Systems
It’s not known yet where the attack came from or how the hackers got inside Anthem’s computer systems, said Vitor De Souza, spokesman for FireEye Inc., whose Mandiant division was hired this weekend to investigate the breach and began sending specialists to Anthem’s headquarters.
What is known is that the malicious software used to infiltrate the network and steal data was customized, which can be a sign of an advanced attacker, and is a variant of a known family of hacking tools, De Souza said. What’s rare in this case is that Anthem discovered the breach itself, instead of being alerted to it by a third party such as a bank or a credit-card company, De Souza said. Such organizations are often the first to detect fraud and link stolen data to a hacking attack.
Investigators were able to track the stolen data to an Internet storage service that the attackers were using to warehouse their pilfered information, De Souza said.
He added that Mandiant, which has investigated such big-name breaches as Sony Pictures Entertainment and JPMorgan Chase & Co., is seeing more attacks against health-care companies, which are repositories of personal information that can be used for all kinds of fraud.
“We have seen a large uptick in health-care attacks - healthcare is now a common vector of attack,” he said. “You have your traditional ones, government, finance, high-tech and critical infrastructure are dominating, but healthcare and legal stand out as among the fastest-growing attack vectors in the world.”
Credit Lines
Aetna Inc., the third-largest U.S. insurer, said in 2009 it was notifying about 65,000 people that their personal information, including Social Security numbers, may have been compromised on a job applicant site in 2009.
Social Security numbers are among the worst kind of data to have stolen, because they are difficult to change and are used pervasively, especially for access to medical care, government services and opening new lines of credit.
Most large breaches, such as Target’s, involve payment-card numbers, as those are of most immediate and easiest use for cyber-criminals, who exploit the gap between when information is taken and when companies discover a breach to withdraw cash from ATMs and run up fraudulent charges before the cards are canceled. For cyber-criminals, Social Security numbers are more useful, in that they can be used to validate people to lenders, but they require the extra step of setting up new accounts, which some online crooks find too time-consuming and risky.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201501230848
SYMBOL = DE
Deere to layoff 910 employees in Iowa, Illinois
Deere & Co. DE, +1.53% said it will place 910 employees on "indefinite layoff," from facilities in Iowa and Illinois that make agricultural equipment. The number of layoffs include 565 employees from three locations in Waterloo, Iowa, 300 from Des Moines Works in Ankeny, Iowa and 45 from Harvester Works in East Moline, Illinois. The company also said about 500 employees at its seeding and cylinder facility in Moline will go on an "extended inventory adjustment shutdown." Separately, Deere said it has hired 220 new employees at construction and forestry factories in Iowa. The stock has gained 5.1% over the past three months, nearly matching the 5.8% rise in the S&P 500.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201407170845
SYMBOL = MSFT
Microsoft to cut 18,000 jobs, book big charge
Microsoft Corp. said it plans to eliminate up to 18,000 jobs, or 14% of its work force, over the next year, part of a sweeping plan to streamline its operations following the recent acquisition of Nokia’s devices and services business.
The software giant MSFT, -0.05%   also said the plan would result in a restructuring charge of $1.1 billion to $1.6 billion over the next four quarters.
Of the 18,000 planned cuts, about 12,500 will be professional and factory positions eliminated through synergies with the Nokia operations.
The company said it expects to substantially complete the plan by the end of this year, with full completion expected by June 30, 2015.
Chief Executive Satya Nadella, who took over the role from Steve Ballmer more than five months ago, has been seeking to streamline the company’s operations in order to focus more on developing technology to help people improve their lives and businesses run with more efficiency.
The Nokia operations, acquired in April, were considered a likely target for job cuts. The acquisition boosted Microsoft’s employee total to more than 120,000 from 99,000, The Wall Street Journal reported last week.
Mr. Nadella outlined the layoff plans in an email to employees, the company said Thursday.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201309181640
SYMBOL = BBRY
BlackBerry slides on report of massive layoff
BlackBerry Ltd. shares slid on Wednesday on the heels of a report that it will lay off up to 40% of its 12,000 workers.
$BBRY: BlackBerry BBRY, +2.68%  shares fell 1.5%. The Canadian company is preparing to reduce its staff by up to 40% by the end of the year, The Wall Street Journal reported. The wireless devices maker has gone through a series of layoffs in recent years in an effort to reduce costs.
The news overshadowed the unveiling of BlackBerry Z30, a smartphone with a 5-inch display, to capitalize on the growing popularity of devices with bigger screens known as “phablets.” The Z30 is scheduled to hit retail stores in the U.K. and the Middle East next week.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201308160600
SYMBOL = CSCO
Cisco Systems Inc.’s plan to shed 5% of its workforce is the company’s largest headcount reduction in two years, so it’s worth looking at how similar moves have impacted the tech giant’s shares in the past.
And since the company is a bellwether for corporate technology spending, let’s also see how past Cisco’s CSCO, -0.41%  layoff news has impacted the broader market for tech stocks
At first glance, the layoffs could be seen as a strong buy signal by Cisco shareholders, but more of a yawner for index-investing fans of the tech-heavy Nasdaq.
Cisco shares had risen close to 30% this year before the announcement, so it’s hard to tell how much of Thursday’s stock drop was due to pessimism rather than pure profit taking.
When a stock falls on relatively heavy volume in the wake of a financial report, it’s a good bet that a company’s sales or profit growth is going to be weaker than Wall Street’s expectations.
Yet job cuts lower operating costs and thus boost profit margins, so investors usually reward CEOs who are unafraid to wield a broad ax.
Last July, for example, Cisco said it was eliminating 2% of its workforce, or 1,300 employees, in what looked a lot more like an annual culling rather than a broad move at cost reduction.
Still, those who bought the stock on the news were rewarded handsomely.
At that time, Cisco stock had dropped 11% since the start of 2012. But in the wake of that announcement, the shares shot up almost 40% over the next six months — versus a 10% Nasdaq gain.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201305071719
SYMBOL = DIS
Disney net rises 32% on movie-studio improvement
Walt Disney Co.'s DIS, -0.09% fiscal second-quarter profit rose a better-than-expected 32% as the media giant's movie-studio division swung to a profit and its parks and resorts business showed strong growth.
After Disney completed its purchase of Lucasfilm Ltd. for $4 billion in December, it has moved to capitalize on the company's iconic "Star Wars" franchise, saying it is developing stand-alone films based on certain characters, in addition to the three sequels set to come out starting in 2015.
Disney in April shuttered LucasArts, a 31-year-old division that created videogames based on "Star Wars" as well as original titles, resulting in the layoff of about 200 employees. Disney has been cutting spending on videogame development as it endeavors to bring its Disney Interactive Media Group unit into profitability for the first time. This week, the company enlisted Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) to make new videogames based on the franchise, while Disney will retain certain rights to develop titles on some platforms.
The media networks segment, the company's most profitable division, which includes ESPN, ABC and the Disney Channel, reported a 7.7% gain in operating income. Revenue rose 5.6%.
In the parks and resorts division, operating income was up 73% as revenue increased 14%. The segment's results were driven by increases at domestic operations and, to a lesser extent, international operations.
The studio division swung to a profit of $118 million, from a loss of $84 million a year earlier, and revenue improved 13%. Disney was hurt a year earlier by a write-down stemming from the film "John Carter." Worldwide theatrical distribution improved, too.
Consumer products earnings improved 35%, with revenue up 12%.
Overall, for the quarter ended March 30, Disney reported a profit of $1.51 billion, or 83 cents a share, up from $1.14 billion, or 63 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding special items such as tax adjustments, per-share earnings were up at 79 cents from 58 cents.
Revenue grew 9.6% to $10.55 billion.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters most recently projected earnings of 77 cents a share and revenue of $10.49 billion.
Shares closed Tuesday at $66.07 and were down 0.2% after hours. The stock is up 33% so far this year.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201301070612
SYMBOL = C
Citi names new co-presidents
Citigroup Inc. C, +0.10% said Monday that Manuel Medina-Mora and Jamie Forese will become co-presidents of the nation's third-largest bank by assets, filling a spot that had been vacant since the abrupt exit of former Chief Executive Vikram Pandit in October.
Richard Cookson, the chief investment officer of Citi's private bank, is leaving as the bank cuts costs.
Mr. Forese will also become head of Citi's institutional client group, the unit that includes capital markets, large corporate lending, transaction services and private banking. Mr. Medina-Mora will continue to lead Citi's global consumer businesses, the bank's recent profit engine.
In giving two of the bank's top executives more prominent roles, Michael Corbat, who succeeded Mr. Pandit nearly three months ago, largely re-created a management team put in place by his predecessor, Mr. Pandit. Mr. Corbat also managed to retain risk chief Brian Leach.
Mr. Corbat will have far more direct control over Citi's operations than Mr. Pandit did: All businesses, and all regions except Japan, will report directly to him, along with human resources and public relations.
Mr. Corbat will have 13 senior executives directly reporting to him, while Mr. Pandit had seven. Mr. Medina-Mora and Mr. Forese will take control over the operations and technology for their business units, a function that had previously been centralized and reported into former President John Havens.
Mr. Havens, a close lieutenant of Mr. Pandit and also Citi's head of wholesale banking, left with Mr. Pandit in a shakeup initiated by the board of directors.
In another move, Lew Kaden, a vice chairman who was previously chief administrative officer, will retire in the coming weeks.
RBC Capital Markets analyst Gerard Cassidy applauded the moves, saying Mr. Corbat is "moving proven executives into positions of more responsibility." Mr. Cassidy rates Citi's shares outperform with a price target of $44.
Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc. analyst Todd Hagerman said he considers Monday's changes "as a first step...with more executive changes yet to come." Mr. Hagerman had upgraded Citi's shares to buy from neutral last week, in part because of expectations that Mr. Corbat's promotion to CEO would improve profitability. Mr. Hagerman expects Citi share to rise to $50 over the next 12 months.
Citi's stock rose 4 cents Monday, to $42.47. Shares have been rising since Mr. Corbat's appointment as CEO, and Citi is one of the best-performing big bank stocks so far this year, rising more than 7%.
Importantly for investors, Mr. Corbat also elevated Mr. Leach, the bank's respected chief risk officer. Mr. Leach was a close ally of Mr. Pandit and was credited with helping Citi to curb risk and implement tighter risk controls after the financial crisis hit. His departure would have been a black eye for Citi.
Mr. Leach will become head of risk and strategy. Brad Hu, currently the Asia risk chief, will become the bank's overall chief risk officer and report to Mr. Leach.
Chief Financial Officer John Gerspach will remain in his role, as expected. He will oversee Citi's efforts to cut costs, including the bank's goal to save $900 million in expenses this year, which the bank said in December would result in more than 11,000 job cuts.
One consequence of the layoffs is the dismissal of Mr. Cookson. Private banking CEO Jane Fraser said in a memorandum to staff Monday that Citi decided "there will no longer be a requirement for a single individual to formulate the firm's investment strategy." Instead, the private bank will make more use of research from Citi's capital markets division.
Mr. Corbat said in a press release about the management changes, "Citi is fortunate to have very strong leaders with the skills and experience I will rely on as we navigate the challenges and opportunities ahead."
"While the responsibilities of some members of my team are changing, this leadership team and management structure will ensure continuity," he said.
Mr. Corbat also appointed Jim Cowles as CEO of Europe, Middle East, and Africa, the role Mr. Corbat had before his promotion to CEO. Mr. Cowles "has spent much of his career in the region," Mr. Corbat said.
Citi's chief of operations and technology, Don Callahan, will continue to report to Mr. Corbat but take on a new role as head of all infrastructure that spans across business lines, and ensure that Citi's systems comply with regulatory requirements. Operations and technology will face a heavy burden during the implementation of the cost-cutting plan; more than 5,700 job cuts will come from that area, Citi said in December.
Mr. Callahan said in a memorandum to his staff that centralizing operations and technology five years ago enabled Citi to "address issues more quickly" and reduced costs "by more than $4 billion." Citi was plagued by multiple computer systems before the centralization and a comprehensive technology overhaul. Now, he said decentralizing operations and technology will enable "businesses to better execute coordinated strategies."
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201206211743
SYMBOL = ACI
Arch Coal idles three U.S. mines, cuts 750 jobs
SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- Arch Coal, Inc. ACI, +2.44% said late Thursday it will idle several mining operations in Appalachia, decreasing overall coal production by 3 million tons annually, in response to drops in demand for coal-generated electricty. Arch Coal estimates the cutback will save them $30 to $40 million in annual capital expenditures and cost 750 full-time employees their jobs, 10% of the company's workforce. They estimate the layoff costs at $14 million. Arch Coal shares closed Thursday at $4.20. The stock is down 57% since the start of the year, reflecting in part stiff competition from natural gas in power generation and a slowdown in comercial and industrial electricity demand.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201205171702
SYMBOL = HPQ
H-P gains on layoff reports; techs slip
Hewlett-Packard Co. was able to defy a selloff across the rest of the technology sector Thursday, as word emerged that the troubled industry titan was planning to cut as many as 30,000 jobs.
Reports in various media outlets said H-P HPQ, -0.18%  was still considering job cuts that could affect about 10% of its workforce. The plans will reportedly be announced as part of the company’s second fiscal-quarter earnings report next Wednesday, May 23. Read AllThingsD report on H-P's planned job cuts.
H-P shares gained 0.1% to close at $22.06.
In an email, analyst Brian Marshall of ISI Group wrote that “a reduction in force will improve confidence in H-P’s guidance of ‘at least $4 earnings per share in fiscal-year 2012.’” The move, he added, “could enable investments in strategic, higher-growth areas.”
“While a difficult decision, in our view, a reduction in force will improve confidence in H-P’s guidance for “at least $4 EPS in FY12” and enable investments in strategic, higher-growth areas,” Brian Marshall of ISI Group wrote in an email. Read First Take about H-P’s job cuts just as Facebook’s IPO party gets going.
Apple Inc. AAPL, -0.11%  shares fell 3% to close at $530.12. The Nasdaq Composite Index COMP, +0.11%  shed 2% to close at 2,814. The Morgan Stanley High-Tech Index MSH, -0.18%  and Philadelphia Semiconductor Index SOX, +0.29%  were also each down 2%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA, +0.16%  was down 156 points.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201501271641
SYMBOL = AMGN
Amgen profit, sales rise above expectations
Amgen Inc. said fourth-quarter earnings rose about 27%, as sales growth was again driven by key drugs such as cancer therapy Kyprolis and osteoporosis treatment Prolia.
The results easily beat expectations.
Amgen reported a quarterly profit of $1.29 billion, or $1.68 a share, up from $1.02 billion, or $1.33 a share, a year earlier.
Excluding acquisition and restructuring-related charges and other items, earnings rose to $2.16 a share from $1.82. Revenue increased 6.4% to $5.33 billion. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters projected a per-share profit of $2.05 and revenue of $5.2 billion.
Amgen, based in Thousand Oaks, Calif., has continued to showcase its drug pipeline, which includes the potential for a number of product launches this year. Like other big drug makers, Amgen needs to bring new treatments to market, as older ones face the threat of low-price competition.
During October, the company laid out streamlining plans aimed at generating as much as $1.5 billion in annual cost savings by 2018. In Tuesday's report, Amgen indicated it realized $300 million under its long-term cost-savings plan during 2014.
The company has faced pressure from activist Dan Loeb, who has urged Amgen to trim its research and development structure and potentially break up, separating its mature business from faster-growing operations, an idea proposed earlier by Sanford Bernstein analyst Geoffrey Porges.
In the latest reporting quarter, sales of Kyprolis rose by 25% to $91 million, while sales for 2014 totaled $331 million in the first full year of commercialization since Amgen's $10.4 billion acquisition of Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. in 2013.
The drug was approved in the U.S. in 2012 as a treatment for a blood cancer known as multiple myeloma. On Tuesday, Amgen said it had submitted a supplemental new drug application in the U.S. and an application for regulatory approval in the European Union for Kyprolis as a treatment for relapsed multiple myeloma.
Combined sales of Neulasta and Neupogen, both of which are used to prevent infections in patients receiving chemotherapy, rose 3%. Neulasta sales rose 7% to $1.18 billion, mostly thanks to higher prices, but Neupogen sales fell 11% to $274 million amid lower-priced competition in the U.S.
Sales of Amgen's osteoporosis drugs again improved thanks to stronger volume. Prolia revenue climbed by a third to $315 million, while XGeva sales jumped 14% to $325 million. Enbrel sales increased 11% to $1.34 billion.
Amgen also reaffirmed its guidance for 2015.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201501270714
SYMBOL = PFE
Pfizer's stock falls after downbeat profit, sales outlook
NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- Shares of Pfizer PFE, -0.09% slumped 1.7% in premarket trade Tuesday, after the drug giant provided a downbeat 2015 profit and sales outlook, citing product losses and the negative impact of currency moves. That overshadowed better-than-expected fourth-quarter results. Pfizer said it expects 2015 adjusted earnings per share in the range of $2 to $2.10, and revenue of $44.5 billion to $46.5 billion, compared with the FactSet consensus analyst estimates of $2.16 and $47.4 billion, respectively. For the fourth quarter, net earnings fell to $1.23 billion, or 19 cents a share, from $2.57 billion, or 39 cents a share. Excluding non-recurring items, earnings were 54 cents a share. Sales fell 3% to $13.12 billion. Analysts were expecting adjusted earnings of 53 cents a share and sales of $12.9 billion. The stock, a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, has run up 13% over the past three months through Monday, while the Dow has gained 5.1%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201501201833
SYMBOL = NFLX
Netflix surges after earnings, subscriber growth beats
Netflix Inc. rallied in the extended session Tuesday after the video streaming service topped earnings and subscriber expectations.
Netflix NFLX, +0.01%  shares surged 16% to $404.04 on heavy volume after the company reported adjusted earnings of 72 cents a share on revenue of $1.49 billion. Analysts surveyed by FactSet had expected earnings of 45 cents and revenue of $1.49 billion. The streaming video-service said it added 4.33 million net subscribers in the fourth quarter, and expects to add 4.05 million new members in the current quarter, topping analyst expectations.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201501200647
SYMBOL = BHI
Baker Hughes profit rises; warns on oil-price drop
Baker Hughes Inc.'s results in its December quarter easily topped Wall Street expectations, as the oil-field services company benefited from stronger-than-projected demand and cost cuts.
Still, Baker Hughes Chief Executive Martin Craighead warned on Tuesday that 2015 results would likely be pressured by the recent drop in oil prices.
"When we reflect on the marketplace, the bearish sentiment that has pervaded our industry is understandable, considering the steep drop in commodity prices in recent months," Mr. Craighead said. "While market demand ended up being more resilient in the fourth quarter than many had predicted, the recent declines seen in rig counts will clearly affect results in 2015."
On Friday, activist investor ValueAct Capital Management LP reported a 5.1% stake in Baker Hughes--an unusual move, since Baker Hughes is in an agreement to be bought by larger rival Halliburton Co.
ValueAct didn't indicate its motives in the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that revealed its stake.
The deal with Halliburton, struck in November and valued at almost $35 billion at the time, underscored the new realities for energy companies in a world suddenly awash with oil. As a result, oil-field services companies, which are hired to drill and pump wells, are facing less demand for their services and pressure to cut prices.
Since the deal was struck, oil prices have continued their downward spiral.
For the fourth quarter ended Dec. 31, Baker Hughes reported a profit of $663 million, or $1.52 a share, up from $248 million, or 56 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding a gain on deconsolidation of a join venture, adjusted per-share earnings were $1.44.
Revenue grew 13.2% to $6.64 billion.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters were expecting adjusted earnings of $1.07 a share on revenue of $6.41 billion.
The North American segment, the company's largest geographic business by revenue, reported a 20.4% increase in revenue to $3.3 billion. Revenue climbed 13.1% in the Middle East and Asia Pacific region, and 5% in the Europe, Africa and Russia Caspian segment. Latin America revenue edged down 2%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201501200740
SYMBOL = HAL
Halliburton results beat expectations
Halliburton Co. posted higher earnings and revenue in its December quarter but warned that 2015 will be challenging, as the oil-field services company moves forward with plans to acquire smaller rival Baker Hughes Inc.
For the quarter ended Dec. 31, Halliburton HAL, +2.21%  reported a profit of $901 million, or $1.06 a share, compared with a year-earlier profit of $793 million, or 93 cents a share. Halliburton said it took a $129 million restructuring charge in the quarter to temper the weak outlook. Excluding that and a $19 million charge related to the Baker Hughes BHI, +0.15%  acquisition, earnings were $1.19 a share.
Revenue grew 14.8% to $8.77 billion.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected earnings of $1.10 a share and revenue of $8.78 billion.
The company’s completion and production segment reported a 20.5% revenue surge to $5.47 billion, while its drilling and evaluation revenue climbed 6.5% to $3.3 billion.
Halliburton, the second largest oil-field-services company and a bellwether for the industry, last month said it laid off 1,000 workers outside the U.S. as it seeks to reign in costs to help offset pricing pressures. In recent weeks the Houston-based company said it would downsize closer to home.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201501200745
SYMBOL = DAL
Delta Air shares surge 4.7% in premarket trade as earnings beat estimates
Delta Air Lines Inc. shares DAL, +0.13% climbed 4.7% in premarket trade Tuesday, after the company reported better-than-expected fourth-quarter adjusted earnings. Delta said it had a net loss of $712 million, or 86 cents a share, in the quarter, after earnings of $8.479 billion, or $9.89 a share, in the year-earlier period. The airline had a $1.4 billion special items charge in the quarter, with $1.2 billion of that stemming from mark-to-market adjustments on fuel hedges. In the year-earlier period, it had a $7.9 billion special items gain. Excluding special items, per-share earnings came to 78 cents, a penny ahead of the FactSet consensus. Revenue came to $8.234 billion, up 4.6% from a year ago, but below the FactSet consensus of $9.547 billion. "While we face headwinds from the stronger dollar and lower fuel prices going forward, we have confidence we can continue to generate top-line growth as we realize additional benefits from our Virgin Atlantic joint venture, restructure our Pacific network, gain additional corporate share, and ramp up our merchandising efforts with branded fares and enhanced customer segmentation," President Ed Bastian said in a statement. Shares have gained 27.2% in the last three months, while the S&P 500 has gained 6%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201501201740
SYMBOL = CREE
Cree shares rally on quarterly earnings beat
Cree Inc. CREE, +1.15% shares rose in the extended session Tuesday after the light-emitting diode maker topped Wall Street expectations for the quarter. Cree shares advanced 5.9% to $34.26 on heavy volume. The company reported adjusted second-quarter earnings of 33 cents a share on revenue of $413.2 million. Analysts surveyed by FactSet had estimated 22 cents a share on revenue of $412.1 million. For the fiscal third-quarter, Cree forecast adjusted earnings of 21 cents to 25 cents a share on revenue of $395 million to $415 million. Analysts estimate 21 cents a share on revenue of $404.9 million.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201501200759
SYMBOL = JNJ
Johnson & Johnson beats profit expectations, but sales fall shy
Shares of Johnson & Johnson JNJ, +0.05% slipped 0.1% in premarket trade Tuesday, after the drug giant reported fourth-quarter earnings that beat expectations, but revenue that fell below forecasts. Net earnings fell to $2.52 billion, or 89 cents a share, from $3.52 billion, or $1.23 a share, in the year-earlier period. Excluding non-recurring items, adjusted earnings per share were $1.27, above the FactSet consensus analyst estimate of $1.25. Revenue fell 0.6% to $18.25 billion, as sales of its top-selling treatment for inflammatory disease, Remicade, declined 2.3% to $1.67 billion. Analysts were expected total sales of $18.56 billion and Remicade sales of $1.74 billion. For 2015, the company expects adjusted earnings per share in the range of $6.12 to $6.27, surrounding analyst forecasts of $6.16. The stock, a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, has gained 4.9% over the past three months, while the Dow has advanced 6.8%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201501060702
SYMBOL = JNJ
Johnson & Johnson begins human testing of Ebola vaccine
Johnson & Johnson on Tuesday said it has begun testing its Ebola-virus vaccine in humans and will have more than 400,000 doses available in April.
J&J JNJ, +0.05%   accelerated development of the vaccine regimen this fall as the Ebola virus continued to spread, overwhelming health-care systems across West Africa.
The regimen, developed in partnership with Denmark biotechnology company Bavarian Nordic, is the latest in a race to get vaccines into human testing--a crucial step in establishing whether an experimental therapy will work safely--and help curb the spread of the virus.
J&J said some volunteers have already received their initial vaccine dose, and enrollment is expected to wrap up by the end of the month. The early-stage clinical trial is being led by the University of Oxford’s pediatrics department.
J&J also boosted its production goals for the vaccine. The company said it would produce 2 million regimens of the vaccine this year, with the ability to scale up to 5 million regimens if needed. J&J had originally planned to produce more than 1 million regimens by the end of the year, with 250,000 regimens for use in clinical trials by May.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201501020924
SYMBOL = RAD
Rite Aid Dec same-store sales up 5.3%
Rite Aid Corp. on Friday said sales at stores open at least a year grew 5.3% in December, boosted again by strengthening pharmacy sales.
Rite Aid shares gained 1.9% in premarket trading after rebounding 51% in the last three months.
For the month ended Dec. 27, the company said total drugstore sales rose 4.9% to $2.21 billion.
Rite Aid's December same-store-sales growth came in above November's increase of 5.1%. The pharmacy business posted a 7.3% rise in same-store sales, including a negative impact of 1.23 percentage points from new generic-drug introductions, as the prescription count rose 5.1%.
Rite Aid, the nation's No. 3 drugstore chain, operates roughly 4,570 stores. Like other chains, Rite Aid has adjusted its offerings in an effort to broaden its business model as the pharmacy and drugstore industry expands into the health and wellness sector.
In the front of the store, comparable sales rose 1.7% in December.
Rite Aid's results mirror those of the newly-renamed Walgreen Boots Alliance Inc., formerly Walgreen Co. Last month, the company posted better-than-expected results in its November quarter, boosted by strong pharmacy sales and cost cuts.
Walgreen also is relying on higher margins from selling items such as beauty products in the front end of the stores, as lower drug-reimbursement rates and higher costs for generic drugs weigh on profits.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014122218:09
SYMBOL = BMY
FDA approves Bristol-Myers’s skin cancer treatment Opdivo
U.S. regulators Monday approved Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.’s Opdivo for advanced skin cancer, the latest drug to reach the market in the emerging field of cancer immunotherapy.
The decision by the Food and Drug Administration means Bristol-Myers BMY, -0.17%   now has two drugs on the market that work by unleashing the body’s immune system to attack tumors, helping to solidify the company’s lead in an area of cancer treatment that has drawn wide interest across the pharmaceutical industry.
It also comes amid a flurry of year-end drug approvals by the federal agency, including three last Friday. Opdivo, which is also known by the chemical name nivolumab, is the eighth new drug to reach the market in the past four years for late-stage melanoma, a historically lethal disease.
Bristol-Myers officials said the company plans to charge an average of $12,500 a month for the treatment, the same price as the rival drug Keytruda from Merck & Co. MRK, +0.02%  , which was approved in September. Both drugs target a protein called PD-1, a molecular brake that prevents the immune system from seeing tumors as invaders and enables cancer to avoid attack.
The two drugs are approved for patients who fail to respond to certain other medicines including Yervoy, another Bristol-Myers immunotherapy drug that was approved for advanced melanoma in 2011 and that works by releasing a different immune system brake.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201412220745
SYMBOL = ABBV
Express Scripts picks AbbVie over Gilead for hepatitis C drug
The largest manager of U.S. prescription-drug benefits is taking sides in a fight between new hepatitis C treatments that cost close to $100,000 per patient.
Express Scripts Holding Co. ESRX, -0.62%   will make an AbbVie Inc. ABBV, +1.15%   drug the exclusive option for patients with the most common form of hepatitis C. The move will help the drug maker take market share from Gilead Sciences Inc. GILD, +0.01%  , which makes the blockbuster Sovaldi, but is likely to be controversial for limiting choices.
Express Scripts, which has been critical of the cost of Gilead’s treatments, said on Monday it had negotiated to receive a discount from AbbVie on the $83,319 wholesale price of the multidrug Viekira Pak, a standard 12-week course of treatment that was approved by U.S. regulators on Friday. In exchange, Express Scripts will no longer pay for Gilead’s drugs for patients with a type of hepatitis C known as genotype 1, representing about two-thirds of the people with the viral liver disease.
Sovaldi costs $84,000 for the typical 12-week regimen.
Express Scripts said the decision will go into effect Jan. 1, and apply to 25 million beneficiaries whose employers contract with the company directly, or roughly 28% of the 90 million Americans it covers. The St. Louis-based company will also encourage all of its customers, including those it serves through large health insurers, to make the change.
Gilead’s drug Harvoni is the most direct competitor to AbbVie’s treatment and has a wholesale cost of $94,500. Gilead’s first-approved hepatitis C pill, Sovaldi, had sales of $8.5 billion through the third quarter of this year. Harvoni is a combination of Sovaldi and another compound.
AbbVie declined to comment.
A Gilead spokeswoman said the company has negotiated in good faith with Express Scripts and other health-care payers to ensure patient access to its drugs.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201412160816
SYMBOL = CVS
CVS sets $10 billion buyback plan, ups dividend
CVS Health Corp. projected up to 16% earnings growth for the next year, driven by gains in specialty drugs and acquisitions.
The drugstore, which changed its name to CVS Health in October as it sold its last tobacco products, also approved a new $10 billion stock repurchase program and boosted its quarterly dividend by 27% to 35 cents a share. The boost will cost the company about an extra $90 million a quarter. It translates to a dividend yield of about 1.6%.
For 2015, the company expects earnings, excluding special items, of $5.05 to $5.19, which indicates growth between 13% to 16% from 2014.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had called for 14% earnings growth to $5.11 a share.
CVS Health expects free cash flow of $5.9 billion to $6.2 billion, and cash from operations of $7.6 billion to $7.9 billion.
"Some of that cash will be used to invest in the business, such as through strategic, bolt-on acquisitions that drive continued share gains, " said Chief Financial Officer Dave Denton.
Separately, Chief Executive Larry Merlo said he expects specialty drug costs to grow to nearly half of the total pharmacy sales, and added the company is shoring up its partnerships to adapt to a market changed by health-care reform.
In the most recently ended quarter, CVS Health posted a stronger-than-expected 9.7% increase in revenue, as strength in its pharmacy business offset a decline in front-of-the-store sales partly caused by the absence of cigarettes. The company said in February that it would stop selling cigarettes and other tobacco products.
CVS Health reaffirmed its forecast for 2014.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201412151642
SYMBOL = WCG
WellCare Health Plans Inc. has appointed Chief Operating Officer Kenneth A. Burdick as its new chief executive, a year after firing Alec Cunningham over differing perspectives.
Mr. Burdick, who was 55 years old as of April's proxy filing, replaces Chairman David J. Gallitano, who has served as interim CEO since November 2013. Mr. Burdick joined WellCare in January as president of national health plans and was promoted to be president and chief operating officer in June.
WellCare said last year when it dismissed Mr. Cunningham that it would hunt for a CEO who was "more strategic" ahead of the changes looming in the health-care landscape.
Tampa, Florida-based WellCare focuses on government-backed health-care programs, expanding its business with several acquisitions of Medicaid-focused plans in recent years. Drug costs have weighed on health insurers' results, in general, particularly with expensive hepatitis C treatments hitting the market.
At the time, Mr. Cunningham said he and the board had "different perspectives on how best to move forward in a very complicated health-care marketplace." Mr. Cunningham, who declined to comment further on the circumstances of his termination, had become CEO in 2009, when the company was working to move past a major accounting scandal.
Mr. Burdick, meanwhile, was previously CEO of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota and had also worked with UnitedHealth Group Inc. In his new role, he will be paid an annual salary of $1 million with a short-term incentive target of 150% and a long-time incentive target of 500%, generally in line with Mr. Cunningham's pay.
"Over the past year, Ken has been instrumental in developing our strategy, building the infrastructure we need for the future and transforming our company's culture," Mr. Gallitano said. "Further, his extensive health care background will enable him to continue to effectively implement the company's long-term plans."
Though revenue rose in the most recently ended quarter, WellCare in July had drastically cut its profit outlook for the year after posting weak results in the second quarter because of higher-than-expected pharmacy costs.
Shares of WellCare are up about 10% in the past 12 months.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201412110805
SYMBOL = LLY
Eli Lilly's stock rating goes from bearish to bullish at Morgan Stanley
Morgan Stanley analyst David Risinger made a bullish U-turn on Eli Lilly's stock LLY, +1.42% on Thursday, upgrading it to overweight after being at underweight for three years, because of increased optimism about the pharmaceutical giant's drug pipeline. Risinger also raised his price target to $85, which is 20% above current levels, from $60. "Recent external data readouts in major disease states -- atherosclerosis and Alzheimer's -- makes us more confident that Lilly's [management] is making the righ pipeline investments," Risinger wrote in a note to clients. He increased the odds of success for Lilly's cholesterol products to 50% from 40% and for its Alzheimer's treatment to 50% from 10%. The stock, which gained 1.2% in light premarket trade, has rallied 39% so far this year, compared with a 9.6% rise in the S&P 500.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201412110749
SYMBOL = TEVA
Teva lowers outlook on generics competition
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. offered a weaker-than-expected outlook for next year, citing increased competition in its key generic-drug market.
The Israel-based pharmaceutical company expects revenue of $19 billion to $19.4 billion, below analyst estimates of $20.28 billion. Of this, about $9.1 billion to $9.5 million in sales are expected to come from generics.
Its earnings outlook, however, is also mostly ahead of expectations at $5 to $5.30 a share, versus the $5.06 a share projected by Wall Street.
Teva is the world's top seller of generic drugs by revenue, though it also markets a number of patent-protected, branded medicines.
The Israeli company has faced generic competition specifically for its top-selling drug, multiple-sclerosis therapy Copaxone. The company also has been striving to cope with competition from lower-priced generic medicines from rival drug makers in India, which have been squeezing margins on Teva's generic drugs.
Teva expects the 20-milligram version of Copaxone to face two generic competitors in the U.S. beginning September 2015, but warned that earlier competition could reduce operating income by as much as $50 million a month.
Similarly, new generic versions of its drug Pulmicort, which treats asthma, are expected to reduce revenue by $400 million to $500 million and operating profit by $100 million to $200 million over the course of the year.
Exchange-rate fluctuations could have a $700 million adverse impact on revenue, while reducing operating income by $60 million to $70 million, the company added.
To offset competition, Teva is focusing on its non-generics segment and it plans to add four specialty product approvals and five submissions in 2015. It will also launch the 40-milligram version of Copaxone in the EU and additional markets in the first quarter.
Shares of Teva have been up about 60% this year through Wednesday's close. In its most A Merck & Co. drug shrank tumors in about 18.5% of women with an aggressive form of breast cancer in a small clinical trial, an early sign of the potential of immunotherapy to treat breast tumors.
The Merck drug, Keytruda, was approved by U.S. regulators in September to treat a deadly form of skin cancer, melanoma. Studies have shown the potential of Keytruda and similar drugs developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Roche Holding AG to treat several other types of tumors including lung cancer.
Now, there are early signs that the approach might work against breast cancer, one of the most common types of cancer among women, though further study is needed to validate efficacy.
Keytruda works by blocking a component of immune-system cells known as PD-1, taking a natural brake off the immune system to fight cancer cells.
In an early-stage clinical trial, Merck MRK, +0.02%  studied Keytruda in 32 women with advanced “triple-negative” breast cancer, or tumors that didn’t express any of three receptors that can be targeted by certain other drugs. This form of breast cancer comprises about 15% to 20% of all breast cancers in the U.S., and tends to occur more often in younger women and African-American women, according to the Susan G. Komen organization.
recent quarter, earnings rose a better-than-expected 23%, driven by a jump in profitability in the generic-medicine segment.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201412100857
SYMBOL = MRK
Merck drug shrank tumors in some breast cancer patients in trial
A Merck & Co. drug shrank tumors in about 18.5% of women with an aggressive form of breast cancer in a small clinical trial, an early sign of the potential of immunotherapy to treat breast tumors.
The Merck drug, Keytruda, was approved by U.S. regulators in September to treat a deadly form of skin cancer, melanoma. Studies have shown the potential of Keytruda and similar drugs developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Roche Holding AG to treat several other types of tumors including lung cancer.
Now, there are early signs that the approach might work against breast cancer, one of the most common types of cancer among women, though further study is needed to validate efficacy.
Keytruda works by blocking a component of immune-system cells known as PD-1, taking a natural brake off the immune system to fight cancer cells.
In an early-stage clinical trial, Merck MRK, +0.02%  studied Keytruda in 32 women with advanced “triple-negative” breast cancer, or tumors that didn’t express any of three receptors that can be targeted by certain other drugs. This form of breast cancer comprises about 15% to 20% of all breast cancers in the U.S., and tends to occur more often in younger women and African-American women, according to the Susan G. Komen organization.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201412020844
SYMBOL = MCD
Oil plunge means Big Mac savings and big-money carnage
he market’s steady diet of new highs apparently hasn’t bred overconfidence, if Yale School of Management data is any indication. The proportion of individual investors who believe stocks will be higher a year from now is at its smallest percentage since 1989.
Yet, they’re still buying, both in the stock and retail markets. Cyber Monday delivered where Black Friday failed, with sales up more than 8% from a year ago, according to IBM Digital Analytics.
Maybe it’s all those savings at the gas pump. Or not. After all, Chad Gassaway says the average American can afford to buy an extra Big Mac meal every week thanks to falling gas prices. If the trend continues, a bonus McRib and apple pie can’t be far behind.
In other words, the media is making way too much out of what crumbling oil prices means to the consumer. After crunching all the numbers, Gassaway determined that the drop we’ve seen over the past year has put an extra $317.80 in the pocket of the American driver.
“While lower prices at the pump do contribute some savings to the American consumer, the impact has been grossly overstated,” he said. “While this is a positive, analysts are at risk of putting too much emphasis on lower prices in order to boost their holiday-spending estimates.”
The poor schlubs who don’t occupy the 1% may be enjoying those trans-fat savings, but some heavy hitters are getting obliterated as commodities continue to implode. Carl Icahn has seen the energy part of his portfolio get crushed, Harold Hamm just lost some $10 billion unrelated to his wife, and Brevan Howard Asset Management just closed a $630 million commodity fund.
Looks like more of the same in today’s session.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201411191602
SYMBOL = AAPL
How people are using Apple Pay
Yes, people are using Apple Pay, and they are tapping their phones to buy anything from falafel sandwiches at Panera to booze at Whole Foods, according to a roundup of tweets.
Apple Inc. AAPL, +0.29%  has not disclosed how many times its new mobile payments service has been used, although more than 200,000 retailers have agreed to accept Apple Pay in the U.S. The Cupertino tech darling’s chief executive, Tim Cook, told the Wall Street Journal in October that more than one million credit cards were activated on Apple Pay within the first 72 hours of its debut.
To put that in context, there are roughly 335 million credit cards in circulation in the U.S. today.
But Apple loyalists have been eager to try it out -- and they’ve been raving about its ease of use on social media sites. Several have even commented about how amazed store clerks were when witnessing Apple Pay in the wild for the first time.
To be sure, dozens of tweets pour in from Apple users trying out Apple Pay every single day. They use it to buy coffee and sandwiches at McDonald’s MCD, -0.15%  and Panera Bread PNRA, +0.05%  , groceries at Whole Foods Market WFM, -0.48%   and Winn-Dixie Stores, consumer goods at Walgreens US:WAG  and clothes at Zara.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201411170804
SYMBOL = PFE
Pfizer's stock drops after profit outlook cut
Pfizer's stock PFE, -0.09% fell 1.6% in premarket trade Monday, after the blue-chip drug maker lowered its 2014 profit outlook following its agreement to team up with Germany's Merck KGaA to develop new cancer treatments. Pfizer now expects full-year earnings per share of $1.40 to $1.49, down from its previous guidance of $1.50 to $1.59. The outlook was cut because as part of the cancer treatment partnership, Pfizer will pay Merck KGaA an upfront payment of $850 million, and could pay milestone payments of up to $2 billion. Pfizer said the new earnings outlook doesn't reflect the impact of sharing future profit of Pfizer's Xalkori cancer treatment, which the companies will both promote in the U.S. Pfizer said that once it concludes its analysis of the profit exchange, the impact could reduce financial results by $250 million to $400 million. Pfizer's stock, a component of the Dow industrials, has lost 1% year to date through Friday, compared with a 6.4% gain in the Dow.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201411050927
SYMBOL = WAG
Walgreen October same-store sales top forecasts
Walgreen Co. on Wednesday said same-store sales rose 5.6% in October, topping analysts' expectations, as pharmacy sales drove much of the growth.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had projected same-store sales growth of 5.2%.
While increasing generic drug introductions have helped spur customer demand, the lower prices of the medicines have also weighed on results. New generic introductions over the past 12 months weighed on same-store sales with a negative impact of 1.3 percentage points.
Walgreen said its October pharmacy same-store sales rose 7.5%. Excluding calendar-day shifts, pharmacy same-store sales rose 8%, with a negative impact of 1.9 percentage points related to introductions of generic drugs over the past year. Analysts had forecast pharmacy same-store sales growth of 7.1%.
Pharmacy sales accounted for 67.3% of total sales for October, Walgreen said.
Same-store sales rose 2% in the front of the store, also beating analysts' projections of 1.5% growth. Basket size grew 3.9%, but customer traffic slipped 1.9%.
Total drugstore sales rose 6.9% to $6.8 billion, the company added.
Walgreen has been working toward getting all of the necessary approvals for completing its acquisition of the rest of Alliance Boots GmbH, but activist investor CtW Investment Group has pushed the pharmacy chain to postpone seeking approval from shareholders. Walgreen has said it still expects to finish the deal early next year.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201411040715
SYMBOL = CVS
CVS shares rise more than 3% as revenue tops estimates
CVS Health Corp. CVS, +0.90% said it earned $948 million, or 81 cents a share, in the third quarter, down from $1.249 billion, or $1.02 a share, in the year-earlier period. The drug-store chain said adjusted per-share earnings came to 88 cents, including a 27 cents loss on the early retirement of debt, compared with a FactSet consensus of $1.13. Revenue rose to $35.021 billion from $31.932 billion, ahead of the FactSet consensus of $34.723 billion. Looking ahead, CVS said it is narrowing its full-year adjusted per-share earnings range to $4.47 to $4.50, excluding the debt-related loss. On a GAAP basis, per-share earnings are expected at $3.93 to $3.96. The company is expecting full-year free cash flow of $5.7 to $6.0 billion. Shares rose 3.3% in premarket trade, and are up 20% in the year so far, while the S&P 500 is up 9.2%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410300832
SYMBOL = CAH
Cardinal Health revenue slips 2%
Cardinal Health Inc. said its revenue edged down 2% in the September quarter, hurt by the expiration of its contract with Walgreen Co.
The company was dealt a blow last year when Walgreen and European drug giant Alliance Boots GmbH agreed to get their branded and generic pharmaceutical products from rival AmerisourceBergen Corp.
Drug wholesalers have been forming ventures and collaborations with other health-care related companies, in an effort to increase their bargaining power with pharmaceutical companies and expand internationally.
Late last year, Cardinal Health agreed to form a joint venture with CVS Caremark Corp., in which the drugstore-operator and pharmacy-benefits manager source generic drugs as consumers increasingly are using the less-expensive medicines.
The Dublin, Ohio-based company provides pharmaceuticals and medical products to more than 100,000 locations, while also offering direct-to-home distribution of medical supplies.
For its first quarter ended Sept. 30, the company posted a profit of $266 million, or 78 cents a share, compared with $339 million, or 99 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding special items, earnings fell to $1 a share from $1.10.
Revenue fell to $24.07 billion from $24.52 billion. Excluding the impact of the Walgreen contract expiration, revenue would have grown 13%, the company said. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters recently projected earnings of 96 cents a share on revenue of $22.43 billion.
Revenue in the company's pharmaceutical segment fell about 3% to $21.21 billion because of the expiration of the Walgreens contract in the prior-year quarter. Excluding the impact of the Walgreens contract expiration, the segment's revenue would have grown 15%, the company said.
Segment profit rose 4% to $451 million, driven by growth from new and existing customers.
The medical segment's revenue increased 5% to $2.85 billion, driven by acquisitions, while profit climbed about 6% to $113 million.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410300736
SYMBOL = ABC
AmerisourceBergen revenue tops estimates
AmerisourceBergen Corp. said its revenue increased 29% in the fourth quarter, driven by strong top-line gains in its pharmaceutical distribution business.
For the recently started fiscal year, the drug wholesaler expects earnings of $4.36 to $4.50 a share on revenue growth of 7% to 8%. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters recently expected full-year earnings of $4.38 a share on revenue growth of 5%.
Drug wholesalers have been forming ventures and collaborations with other health-care-related companies to increase their bargaining power with pharmaceutical companies and expand internationally.
Last year, AmerisourceBergen began an alliance with U.S. drugstore-chain operator Walgreen Co. and European drug company Alliance Boots GmbH. The onboarding of all the new Walgreen-branded pharmaceuticals business and a chunk of the generic pharmaceuticals business helped drive up revenue this quarter, the company said.
Earlier this year, the company launched its specialty drug-distribution joint venture with Profarma Distribuidora de Produtos Farmaceuticos SA, and completed its acquisition of a 19.9% stake in the Brazilian drug wholesaler.
For the period ended Sept. 30, revenue rose to $31.59 billion from $24.47 billion.
Pharmaceutical distribution revenue rose 29% to $31.02 billion.
Overall, AmerisourceBergen reported a profit of $67.8 million, or 29 cents a share, compared with a profit of $51 million, or 22 cents a share, a year earlier. The company's cost of sales rose 29% to $30.72 billion, while its operating expenses increased 47% to $665.3 million.
Excluding special items, per-share earnings from continuing operations rose to $1.10 from 81 cents.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410290525
SYMBOL = SNY
Sanofi board ousts CEO Viehbacher after clash over strategy
French drug maker Sanofi SA dismissed Chief Executive Christopher Viehbacher on Wednesday, less than 24 hours after the German-Canadian executive played down speculation over his departure.
“The board of directors held a meeting Wednesday, October 29 at 0800 and decided unanimously to remove Christopher Viehbacher as chief executive officer of Sanofi,” the company said in a statement.
Sanofi SAN, +0.80% SNY, +0.43%  Chairman Serge Weinberg said Viehbacher was ousted because of his management style and relationship with the company’s board. Weinberg added that he would temporarily take over Viehbacher’s responsibilities and that the company had no plans to change its strategy.
Viehbacher’s appointment in December 2008 was presented as a major cultural shift to internationalize Sanofi beyond its traditional French and European strongholds. But while the CEO’s efforts to steer the company into new areas of business has helped revive growth after Sanofi lost patents on some of its best-selling drugs, his open criticism of past research failures, and emphasis on the U.S. market has upset French labor unions and many French government officials.
Viehbacher’s shift to Boston, where he relocated in June, has also rekindled government concern that France is losing ground in keeping decision-making centers in Paris.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014102807:34
SYMBOL = PFE
Pfizer sales fall less than expected
Pfizer Inc. said its revenue edged lower in the third quarter, hurt by generic competition for several key drugs, while its profit was buoyed by fewer restructuring charges.
The results topped analysts' expectations, and shares rose more than 2% premarket.
The pharmaceutical giant tightened its earnings guidance for the year by three cents on each end, to a range of $2.20 to $2.30. It also lowered the top end of its expected revenue range by $1 billion to $48.7 billion to $49.7 billion.
Pfizer, like its rivals, has sought to contend with sales pressures coming from increased generic competition by developing new drugs and new uses. For instance, its Prevnar pneumonia vaccine, was recently recommended for use in adults older than 65. Eyes are on the company's palbociclib breast-cancer drug, as well, while the Food and Drug Administration reviews the treatment.
Meanwhile, Pfizer, which saw potential deals with AstraZeneca PLC and Actavis PLC go nowhere this year, has been on the hunt for acquisitions but has also said it would consider splitting up.
In all, the company reported a profit of $2.67 billion, or 42 cents a share, up from $2.59 billion, or 39 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding restructuring charges and other items, earnings fell to 57 cents a share from 58 cents.
Revenue declined 2.2% to $12.36 billion as a promotion collaboration for Enbrel expired in the U.S. and Canada, and the company lost exclusivity on some drugs in several markets.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had projected 55 cents a share in earnings and $12.24 billion in revenue.
Pfizer boosted research and development spending in the period, the total amount rising about 10% to $1.79 billion.
The company's global established pharmaceutical segment's revenue slipped by about 7% to $6.24 billion, and its global innovative pharmaceutical unit posted a decline of about 4% to $3.49 billion. Global vaccines revenue rose 19% to $1.14 billion.
The consumer health-care division, which produces products such as heartburn pill Nexium and pain reliever Advil, posted a 4% sales gain to $821 million.
Pfizer said it experienced solid growth in revenue from emerging markets--a 9% increase on an operational basis--with vaccine Prevenar and cholesterol drug Lipitor doing particularly well in China.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410270717
SYMBOL = MRK
Merck tightens guidance as sales hit by generics
Merck & Co. tightened its outlook for the year as the effect of patent expirations again weighed on its sales for the most recent period.
The company's earnings topped analysts' expectations, but the top line fell short.
Merck tightened its earnings outlook for the year by three cents on each end, to a range of $3.46 to $3.50 a share. It also lowered the top end of its revenue outlook and it now expects a range of $42.4 billion to $42.8 billion.
The company's chief executive, Kenneth C. Frazier, characterized the latest period's results as "solid," while he said the pharmaceutical giant is "making steady progress" in divesting noncore assets and cutting expenses, while also focusing on new products.
Merck, like its rivals, has seen greater competition from generic drug makers in recent years as key patents have expired. To combat receding sales, Merck has invested in ways to reinvigorate its portfolio, including through development of treatments in the hot field of immunotherapy for cancer.
The Food and Drug Administration last month approved Merck's cancer immunotherapy, which the company plans to sell under the name Keytruda, for the treatment of melanoma. The decision made it the first drug of its kind--a PD-1 inhibitor--to hit the market, and positioned Merck for potentially billions of dollars in sales.
The company posted a profit of $895 million, or 31 cents a share, down from $1.12 billion, or 38 cents a share, in the prior-year period. Excluding restructuring costs and other items, earnings fell to 90 cents a share from 92 cents.
Revenue decreased 4.3% to $10.56 billion.
Analysts had projected per-share earnings of 88 cents and revenue of $10.64 billion.
Pharmaceutical sales, by far the company's biggest top-line contributor, fell 4% to $9.1 billion on patent expirations and the continuing impact of past divestitures.
The animal-health segment posted a sales increase of 11% to $885 million. Sales for the consumer-care unit, which sells Claritin allergy medicine and Coppertone sunscreens, fell 9% to $401 million.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410231752
SYMBOL = PFE
Pfizer authorizes $11 billion stock repurchase
Pfizer Inc. said it will continue repurchasing stock with a new $11 billion buyback plan.
The drug company, which has a market capitalization of about $181 billion, said about $1.3 billion remained authorized under a prior buyback program.
Citing its strong operating cash flow, Pfizer said earlier in 2014 that it planned to buy about $5 billion of its shares this year.
Pfizer shares rose 1.4% to $29 in late trading Thursday.
In July, Pfizer said its second-quarter revenue fell 2%, hurt by foreign-currency changes and the expiration of its co-promotion with Amgen Inc. of Enbrel, a psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis drug. The company lowered its revenue outlook for the year, pointing to the looming generic competition for painkiller Celebrex in December.
Pfizer dropped a $120 billion bid for AstraZeneca earlier this year. Pfizer Chief Executive Ian Read said in July that the company continues to evaluate other deals.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410230669
SYMBOL = LLY
Eli Lilly's sales hit again by patent expirations
Eli Lilly & Co. said its sales and profit fell in the most recent period, reflecting patent expirations and generic competition.
Lilly also said it expects a stronger U.S. dollar to weigh on results. As a result, the company lowered the top end of its revenue guidance for the year by $200 million, with the range now at $19.4 billion to $19.8 billion.
Lilly's results have taken hits from increased generic competition as the company has lost patents on some of its higher-profile drugs. Volume fell 16% in the period, driven by lower demand for its Cymbalta and Evista drugs, which recently loss U.S. patent exclusivity. Cymbalta, which had $1.38 billion in sales during the year-ago period, posted a 73% drop to $368 million.
Yet, the company touted a growing pipeline to help drive a return to growth, as well as Food and Drug Administration approvals for three new drugs, including two new medicines for diabetes patients.
Lilly has also sought to broaden its offerings to combat pressures on sales, including through a partnership with AstraZeneca PLC the companies announced last month. The two pharmaceutical firms will develop an experimental Alzheimer's drug that could end up generating as much as $5 billion in annual sales.
Overall, Lilly reported a profit of $500.6 million, or 47 cents a share, down from $1.2 billion, or $1.11 a share, a year earlier. Excluding charges related to restructuring and partnerships, per-share earnings were 66 cents.
Revenue fell 16% to $4.88 billion.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters forecast earnings of 67 cents a share and revenue of $4.83 billion.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410140812
SYMBOL = JNJ
J&J's earnings jump on higher drug sales
Johnson & Johnson said its third-quarter earnings rose 26% on higher pharmaceutical sales despite a stronger U.S. dollar and a smaller boost from its Olysio hepatitis C drug that faces new competition from a recently approved pill.
Shares rose almost 1% to $100.07 in recent premarket trading. Through Monday's close, the stock has fallen 8.9% from its record high of $108.77 on Sept. 24.
J&J, which makes a range of health-care products including prescription drugs, medical devices, Band-Aids and Listerine mouthwash, is considered a bellwether for the industry because its portfolio touches so many sectors.
J&J's Olysio hepatitis C pill was approved by U.S. regulators during November. Olysio sales reached $796 million in the third quarter, down from $831 million in the second quarter.
Many doctors have been prescribing Olysio with another pill, called Sovaldi, from Gilead Sciences Inc. to form an easier-to-take regimen for patients, though the combination hasn't been approved by regulators. Sovaldi is considered the biggest drug launch in history after going on sale late last year, with sales of roughly $9 billion over the first nine months of 2014, according to analysts.
A threat, though, has emerged to that pairing of Sovaldi and Olysio. On Friday, Gilead received U.S. approval to begin selling the first pill that promises to cure most hepatitis C patients without requiring other medicines. The drug, dubbed Harvoni, like other hepatitis C medications carries a high price-- $94,500 for the most typical patients, who would be treated for 12 weeks. However, the price is well below the roughly $150,000 price tag for the regimen of Olysio and Sovaldi.
JNJ late last month reached a $1.75 billion deal to acquire privately held Alios BioPharma Inc., a developer of experimental treatments for viral diseases including respiratory syncytial virus, or RSV, and hepatitis C. Neither of Alios's two early-stage hepatitis C drugs has yet been tested in humans. However, if successful, J&J potentially could combine one or both of them with Olysio to create a more potent hepatitis C treatment.
Overall, during the third quarter, J&J's pharmaceutical sales rose 18% to $8.3 billion amid continued strong sales of Diabetes drug Invokana, blood-thinner Xarelto and psoriasis treatment Stelara.
J&J reported a profit of $4.75 billion, or $1.66 a share, up from $2.98 billion, or $1.04 a share, a year earlier. Excluding a gain from an asset divestiture and other items, per-share earnings rose 10% to $1.50.
Revenue increased 5.1% to $18.47 billion.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected per-share profit of $1.45 and revenue of $18.38 billion.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410130855
SYMBOL = PFE
Pfizer breast cancer treatment granted FDA priority review status
Pfizer Inc. said Monday that its experimental breast-cancer treatment, palbociclib, has been granted priority review by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, potentially speeding the approval process by up to four months.
The drug is used to treat postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer in combination with the FDA-approved breast cancer treatment letrozole.
The FDA gives priority review status to drugs that provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists. The status will expedite review time for palbociclib from 10 months to a goal of six months, with an FDA decision expected on the drug by April, Pfizer PFE, -0.09%  said in a statement Monday.
Earlier this year, researchers said that in a 165-patient study, palbociclib stopped tumors from growing for a median of more than 20 months, about twice as long as the current treatment alone.
J.P. Morgan has estimated the drug could generate $4 billion in sales in 2020.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410060844
SYMBOL = ACT
Actavis agrees to acquire Durata Therapeutics
Actavis PLC reached an agreement to acquire specialty pharmaceutical company Durata Therapeutics Inc. in a deal the companies valued at about $675 million, which is expected to strengthen Actavis’s business that focuses on infectious diseases.
Durata shareholders would receive $23 a share in cash, a 66% premium to Durata’s Friday closing price, plus contingent value rights that would entitle them to additional payments of as much as $5 a share in milestone payments.
The deal is the latest in a series of acquisitions in the pharmaceutical industry.
With the transaction, expected to close in late this year or next year, Actavis ACT, +0.73%  gains Durata’s US:DRTX   Dalvance, an injectable antibiotic that received U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval in May to treat acute drug-resistant skin infections under a program giving incentives to drug makers for antibiotics, including added years of marketing exclusivity.
Durata also is seeking approval from European regulators as well as approvals for other indications in the U.S. Durata recently was granted a special protocol agreement from the FDA to study Dalvance for cases of hospital-acquired pneumonia.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410030809
SYMBOL = RSH
RadioShack agrees to financing from hedge fund Standard General
RadioShack Corp. has agreed to a financing package from hedge fund Standard General LP that will help ease the company’s cash crunch ahead of the holidays, people familiar with the matter said.
The struggling electronics retailer had warned in September that it was running out of cash and needed financial help to stay out of bankruptcy court. The funds from Standard General will help close that gap.
In a filing last week, Standard General said an agreement could be the first step in a broader recapitalization of RadioShack that would be completed early next year.
Standard General holds about 10% of RadioShack’s shares.
The Wall Street Journal last month reported that RadioShack was weighing a $585 million financing plan proposed by Standard General, citing people familiar with the matter.
RadioShack’s agreement to the plan was reported earlier by Bloomberg.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410010819
SYMBOL = TKMR
Tekmira may launch clinical trial of Ebola drug later this year: RBC
Tekmira Pharmaceuticals Corp. TKMR, -1.03% is working to launch a controlled clinical trial of its early-stage Ebola drug, that may start later this year, RBC analysts wrote in a note late Tuesday, following the news of the first Ebola case in the U.S.. RBC met with Tekmira management last week during a roadshow and discussed various ways that the company could advance or monetize the drug. Based on those discussions, RBC said the company is expected to work with a consortium, and likely the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, to plan a trial that may take place in Africa and involve about 40 patients. The company needs time to make the drug for the trial, which could produce data in 2015. If successful, the trial could lead to some form of FDA approval later that year. "It is very possible the CDC may use TKMR's drug to treat the US patient or future patients, as the drug has been granted potential use by FDA for investigational use in Ebola patients in US jurisdiction (and TKMR has already treated some patients in the US)," RBC analysts wrote. "However, ultimately, to monetize anything, that would have to lead to a US "stockpile order." That may comprise $75 million to $100 million of recurring orders, they wrote. "Investors might place a low- to mid-single-digit multiple of sales on that, and divided by 25M+ shares, may be a $5-10/share value," said the note. Tekmira shares rallied 27% late Tuesday along with the stocks of other biotech companies who are working on potential treatments. The shares have gained 165% in the year so far, while the S&P 500 is up 6.7%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410030344
SYMBOL = SLXP
Salix, Cosmo cancel merger amid inversion crackdown
Salix Pharmaceuticals Ltd. and the Italian parent company of drug maker Cosmo Technologies Ltd. said Friday they had terminated their previously announced merger agreement — a deal that had been structured as a so-called inversion, which has come under increased scrutiny in Washington and elsewhere.
Since that deal was signed, however, Allergan Inc. AGN, +0.29%  has pursued Salix SLXP, +0.38%  , as The Wall Street Journal has reported, in an effort to thwart a takeover by Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. VRX, -0.01% VRX, +0.30%  
Salix had agreed to be acquired by Cosmo, an affiliate of Lainate, Italy-based Cosmo Pharmaceuticals SpA. COPN, +0.36%  Cosmo Tech is domiciled in Ireland, and the two combined companies would have benefited from that country’s lower tax rates. Such inversions have become a popular deal-making tactic, resulting in a handful of much bigger transactions.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410021605
SYMBOL = GM
GM to recall 117,651 vehicles for faulty chassis-control system: report
General Motors Co. GM, +0.03% is recalling 117,651 vehicles to fix a faulty chassis-control system that may result in a crash, Automotive News reported Thursday, citing a stop-delivery notice sent to dealers. The flaw in the chassis control modules could cause an electric short that could lead to multiple problems, including the engine stalling, GM said in the notice. The affected vehicles are 2013-2014 model year Cadillac CTS sedans, Escalade SUVs as well as certain Buick and GMC models.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410021703
SYMBOL = JPM
J.P. Morgan Says About 76 Million Households Affected By Cyber Breach
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. said contact information for about 76 million households and about 7 million small businesses was compromised in a cybersecurity attack detected this summer.
The largest U.S. bank by assets said financial information wasn’t compromised in the attack and that customer money is “safe” since there was no breach of any login information such as passwords, dates of birth, social security numbers or account numbers.
But the banks said contact information of the customers’ -- names, email addresses, phone numbers and addresses--were captured by hackers, who remain unknown and under investigation by the bank and law enforcement.
J.P. Morgan JPM, +0.72%  , the largest bank in the country by assets, reiterated that it wasn’t seeing unusual levels of fraud since the cyberattack, first disclosed in late August. It added that customers wouldn’t be liable for any unauthorized transactions on the account if they occur and the bank is notified.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation said at that time it was working with the U.S. Secret Services to determine the scope of cyberattacks against American financial institutions. J.P. Morgan continues to work closely with law enforcement to determine the roots of the computer-hacking attack, people familiar with the matter said.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410021722
SYMBOL = ANTM
WellPoint increases share repurchases by $5 billion
Health insurance giant WellPoint Inc. wlp is increasing its share repurchasing program by $5 billion, the company announced after the close Thursday. The increase brings the total amount of authorized share repurchases to $6 billion. WellPoint said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing that it plans to use this over a multi-year period. WellPoint is one of the bigger players in public exchanges set up under the Affordable Care Act. Shares ended trading Thursday up slightly to $118.45.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410020555
SYMBOL = MCD
McDonald's overhauls food-safety strategy in China
McDonald's Corp. is overhauling its food-safety strategy in China after problems with a supplier hit the fast-food chain's image and eroded its sales in the country.
The Oak Brook, Ill.-based company said in a statement that it will review surveillance video from meat-production sites in China and boost audits of suppliers. More than half of the added audits will be unannounced and conducted jointly by third-party auditors and McDonald's management teams, the statement said. The others will be conducted by suppliers' corporate auditors, it added.
Other steps include the creation of anonymous hotlines for suppliers and their employees to report unethical or noncompliant practices and the dispatching of quality-control specialists to all of McDonald's meat-production facilities in China, the statement said.
The company also said it created a new head of national food safety position in China that will report directly to the chief executive officer. The company is appointing Cindy Jiang--currently senior director of McDonald's global food safety, quality and nutrition--as interim head.
The moves come as McDonald's looks to restore operations in China, where it has more than 2,000 stores, following problems that began in late July with meat supplier Shanghai Husi Food Co., owned by U.S.-based OSI Group LLC.
Authorities accused the Shanghai plant of intentionally selling expired meat to restaurant companies after a television station ran a report alleging the practice. They also launched an investigation into the company, which has yet to be completed, according to China's food and drug regulators. On Friday, six employees of the Shanghai plant were arrested for "selling substandard products."
Sheldon Lavin, chief executive and owner of OSI, apologized to Chinese consumers in July for the problems and said he would focus on overhauling the company's China business.
McDonald's also said in its statement that it is evaluating California-based Golden State Foods Corp. as a potential new supplier in China. The supplier's China division is taking over management of OSI's produce plant in the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou, OSI announced Monday.
A successful evaluation of the Guangzhou plant's new management would reignite a partnership with OSI that has been at a standstill since the July report.
McDonald's said last week it was reconsidering its relationship with OSI, its largest supplier, from which it suspended orders in China after the expired-meat allegations. McDonald's said it has in the last six weeks replaced OSI with companies such as Cargill Inc., Hormel Foods Corp., Trident Seafoods Corp. and Fujian Sunner Development Co.
The supplier switch has taken a toll on McDonald's business. The company faced a near three-week shortage of meat products in many of its stores in the region, limiting menu options and crippling sales in China, Hong Kong and Japan. Lettuce still isn't available for hamburgers in China, though McDonald's said Tuesday it signed Creative Food Group as a new produce supplier.
McDonald's said earlier this month in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing that its global comparable sales forecast for 2014 "is now at risk" because of the issue.
OSI, based in Aurora, Ill., has been an important partner to the U.S. fast-food chain. OSI helped McDonald's lay the groundwork for its expansion in China in the early 1990s. McDonald's is also one of OSI's largest customers in China, according to a Harvard Business School report.
China is a critical growth market for McDonald's and the company has already made moves this year to boost sales, which fell last year amid the country's slowing economic growth as well as negative publicity tied to avian flu and alleged overuse of antibiotics in chicken. McDonald's responded in April by announcing store remodeling and an advertising blitz. It also added new local items, such as green tea ice cream and rice dishes, to its menu.
Experts say the fallout with OSI has taught companies to take a more proactive role in operational management. "Key lesson here is if you're a foreign company and you set up operations in China, you have to manage the operations," said Ben Cavender, a senior analyst at China Market Research Group. Food companies have to play close attention to what their operations and partners are doing to maintain standards, Mr. Cavender said.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201301010656
SYMBOL = JNJ
FDA clears J&J drug for tough-to-treat TB
FDA approves J&J's Sirturo but requires prominent warning label
--Drug is unlikely to be a big moneymaker but may accrue goodwill to J&J
--Fewer than 100 Americans suffer from the disease, multidrug resistant TB
(Adds details on safety risks in paragraph eight, and comments from consumer group Public Citizen and FDA official in paragraphs 13-16.)
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved Johnson & Johnson's JNJ, +0.05% drug to treat a form of resistant tuberculosis that is uncommon in the U.S. but growing globally.
The drug, Sirturo, will treat patients with multidrug resistant tuberculosis, or MDR-TB, a possibly fatal disease that affects as many as 630,000 people world-wide who can't be cured with existing therapies alone. Tuberculosis is a bacterial infection that mostly involves the lungs.
Sirturo, also known as bedaquiline, is not expected to be a large moneymaker for Johnson & Johnson JNJ, +0.05% one of the world's largest health-care conglomerate, because the disease is prevalent in poorer countries unable to afford high prices for the treatment. Providing the drug, though, could help the company create goodwill among regulators, governments and patients around the world.
"The commercial opportunity is very limited," said Pamela Van Houten, a J&J spokesperson. "This is part of our commitment to advance innovative medicines that help address serious public health issues."
The company said it expects to begin selling Sirturo in the second quarter of 2013, and won't announce its sales price until then. Fewer than 100 Americans have MDR-TB, according to J&J, but FDA approval is likely to strengthen the chances for approval in regions where the disease is more prevalent, including India, China and Eastern Europe.
However, the drug's potential side effects, including an increased risk of death, has raised concerns among members of the FDA. The agency will require that a prominent warning label be placed on the drug, informing consumers that patients taking Sirturo in clinical trials saw increased rates of fatalities.
"Because the drug also carries some significant risks, doctors should make sure they use it appropriately and only in patients who don't have other treatment options," said Edward Cox, an FDA official.
About 11.4% of patients taking Sirturo died in during clinical trials, compared to 2.5% taking placebos.
The FDA granted Sirturo accelerated approval, which is a type of temporary approval for diseases that don't have viable treatment options, based on less clinical data than required for traditional drug approvals.
The accelerated approval was based on data from a pair of Phase 2 studies--one of which showed 77.6% of patients in the treatment group reaching treatment success after 24 weeks compared with 57.6% of those in the placebo group.
It is still unclear, though, whether Sirturo caused the increase death rate, said Mel Spigelman, chief executive of the Global Alliance for TB Drug Development, which is partnering with J&J to develop Sirturo in more common strains of tuberculosis.
"It looked more likely that this was just a bad coincidence," Dr. Spigelman said. "But you have to be careful, and the monitoring will have to be rigorous."
Last month, an FDA panel supported a type of early approval for J&J's experimental drug; however, panel members were divided on whether Sirturo played a role in deaths seen in clinical studies.
"A greater number of deaths in the bedaquiline arm is concerning," FDA Deputy Director of Anti-Infective Products, said in a presentation to the panel. "The role of bedaquiline in deaths where hepatoxocity and cardiac failure are contributory could not be ruled out."
The consumer group Public Citizen, which had been strongly opposed to approval, said Monday that it was disappointed in the FDA's decision.
"There were five times more deaths in the drug group than in the placebo group," said Sidney Wolfe, director of health research at Public Citizen. "I don't see how [the FDA] can be so dismissive about it."
Tuberculosis usually is treated with a combination of four drugs for at least six months, according to the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. Some forms of tuberculosis, however, can't be treated with currently available drugs, which the FDA has said "threatens to erode the progress made in the world-wide control of tuberculosis."
Sirturo is designed to work in a new way to treat tuberculosis and would be used with other drugs.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201108261752
SYMBOL = PFE
FDA approves Pfizer lung cancer drug Xalkori
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved Pfizer Inc.'s PFE, -0.09% drug Xalkori on a shortened schedule, handing the pharmaceutical giant a new win as it races to replace expiring patents.
The drug maker called Xalkori capsules the first-ever approved therapy for anaplastic lymphoma kinase in patients with locally advanced or metastatic nonsmall-cell lung cancer.
Drug makers have been racing to replace drugs that are set to come off patent protection. In Pfizer's case, its cholesterol-lowering blockbuster drug Lipitor is due to lose patent exclusivity in November.
Pfizer also worked with Abbott Laboratories' ABT, +0.69% molecular business in its clinical studies to ensure the drug could be approved along with a diagnostic test used to identify patients eligible for the treatment.
The FDA in May gave Pfizer's new drug application for Xalkori priority status, a benefit given to treatments that may offer major advances or provide a therapy where none exists. The drug, which is also called crizotinib, received orphan designation in September and fast-track status in December. Pfizer has also filed the drug for approval by Japanese regulators.
Pfizer said it is conducting post-marketing clinical trials to further evaluate its benefit after the FDA approved its use on a shortened schedule.
"Overall, lung cancer is responsible for more deaths each year worldwide than any other type of cancer," President and Chief Executive Ian Read said, adding the acceleration of the drugs' clinical development program reflects Pfizer's strategy of "advancing our pipeline and strengthening our innovative core to deliver medicines that matter most."
Shares were up 0.5% at $18.30 after hours Friday. The stock has gained 15% over the past year.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201401230908
SYMBOL = F
Ford to take $800 million charge on Venezuela ops
Ford Motor Co. said it would record a $800 million pretax accounting charge in the fourth quarter after the company decided to remove Venezuelan operations from its consolidated earnings.
The charge will lower its 2014 fourth-quarter net income results by $700 million, the company said in a regulatory filing Friday.
The Dearborn, Mich.-based auto maker is set to report its quarterly earnings on Thursday. Before the announcement, analysts polled by Thomas Reuters had forecast adjusted earnings of 23 cents a share, compared with 31 cents a share profit a year earlier.
Ford's 2014 profits already were down from 2013 because of recall costs and economic conditions in South America and Russia, as well as lower production of its F-150 pickup because of a changeover to an aluminum-body construction.
Ford has been unable to get money out of Venezuela because of the devaluation of the currency there, and the situation has been ongoing for so long the company decided to take its operations out of its consolidated earnings.
Ford said it continues to expect its full-year 2014 pretax profit, excluding special items, to be $6 billion.
Still, the net loss from the accounting charge is so large it is possible Ford, overall, could post a net loss for the first time since the recession.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201401011924
SYMBOL = GM
GM issues three more recalls to close out 2014
General Motors Co. GM, +0.03%  closed 2014 by issuing three new recalls covering more than 83,780 large sport-utility vehicles and pickup trucks, while boosting to 84 the number of recall campaigns announced by the auto maker during the year.
The largest of the three is an electrical-system defect potentially affecting 83,572 Cadillac Escalade and Chevrolet Yukons from the 2011 to 2012 model years. The ignition lock actuator may bind, making turning the key difficult or causing the ignition to get stuck in the “start” position, the company said. No crashes or injuries have been reported, and fewer than 500 vehicles are expected to have been affected.
“The issue was discovered through an internal review following warranty part returns,” a GM spokesman said.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201412031629
SYMBOL = HMC
Takata offers no cause, mass recall for exploding air bags
An executive at major auto air bag supplier Takata said the company is still struggling to find the root cause of air bags exploding in the faces of drivers and passengers during some accidents.
The U.S. House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade held a hearing Wednesday to address the ruptures in Takata air bags and the demands for national recalls that have followed.
Takata’s 7312, +1.22%  Senior Vice President for Global Quality Assurance Hiroshi Shimizu fielded questions on the cause of the Japanese company’s air bag defects as well as what they plan to do about it.
Shimizu, and other witnesses, noted that the issue at hand regards air bags that have ruptured in regions of high humidity and temperature—Florida and Puerto Rico specifically.
“At this moment we don’t have the exact root cause,” Shimizu said.
Recalls for vehicles with Takata air bags in these aforementioned regions of high humidity have been issued for Takata, but the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration is now asking that Takata look into a national recall of its air bags.
Some of the automobile manufacturers that install Takata air bags have expanded recalls already. Honda HMC, +0.79%  , for example, on Wednesday extended its driver-side air bags to every state. Chrysler FCAU, +1.18%  followed the same tune, announcing later Wednesday that they too would broaden the reach of its recall.
In the case of Takata, “At this moment there’s not enough scientific evidence to change from a regional recall to a national recall,” Shimizu said.
According to an article in the Detroit News, the NHTSA warned Takata it may start proceedings to fine them $7,000 a day.
The hearing Wednesday addresses only the latest of Takata missteps. According to Consumer Reports, approximately 7.8 million vehicles from 10 different manufacturers have been recalled to replace Takata air bags on either the driver’s side or passenger’s side from 2002 through 2008.
The question was raised during the hearing as to whether these recalls have any relation to those Takata is currently dealing with. Shimizu, as well as Honda’s Executive Vice President Rick Schostek, said they didn’t see a connection.
Shimizu have found fewer than 60 defective air bags in the approximately 4,000 Takata has tested recently.
“We want our customers first to understand if their vehicle is subject to a recall,” Schostek said. “If not, then we believe they are safe.”
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201411270031
SYMBOL = TM
Toyota recalls more vehicles over Takata airbags: report
Toyota Motor Corp. 7203, +2.01% TM, -0.31% said Thursday it plans to recall about 57,000 vehicles worldwide due to possibly faulty airbags made by Takata Corp. 7312, +1.22% TKTDY, -6.82% Reuters reported Thursday. The latest recall includes the Vitz and Yaris subcompacts and RAV4 crossovers made between December 2002 and March 2004, Reuters said, adding that the recall doesn't cover North America. Shares of Toyota were down 0.4% in the final hour of trade, while those of Takata were down 4.7%, compared to a 0.7% loss for the benchmark Nikkei Average NIK, +1.18%
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201411200727
SYMBOL = GM
General Motors sued for $3 billion by Arizona AG
General Motors GM, +0.03% is being sued by the attorney general of Arizona for $3 billion, alleging the automaker defrauded consumers in its handling of recalls, according to a report in the New York Times on Thursday. In a scathing complaint, the suit suggests GM intentionally misled consumers through its advertising and public statements, and that some top executives were complicit in the misdeeds, the report said. Arizona is breaking from a group of 48 states that have been pursuing an investigation into GM's handling of a recall for an ignition-switch defect that was delayed for decades, but Arizona AG Thomas Horne said he felt a separate suit was the best way to protect the citizens of Arizona, the report said. GM's stock, which fell 1% in premarket trade, has dropped 21% year to date through Wednesday, compared with an 11% rise in the S&P 500.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410280827
SYMBOL = HMC
Honda cut outlook as recalls weigh
Even before the full cost of recalling millions of vehicles for potentially defective air bags hits home, Honda Motor Co. is running into financial speed bumps.
Honda executives said Tuesday that the company was still negotiating the allocation of recall costs with the air bag supplier, Takata Corp. But Honda's operating profit unexpectedly slumped anyway in the latest quarter because of sluggish sales in North America and Japan.
Honda also cut its net income forecast for the fiscal year ending March 31 because of weakness in the domestic market, where an increase in the consumption tax this year has caused car buyers to think twice, and China, where Honda cited a "difficult business environment." Honda said it now expected net income of Yen565 billion ($5.22 billion) for the full financial year, down from Yen574.1 billion in the year ended March 31, 2014. Honda previously predicted an increase to Yen600 billion for the full year.
Honda, the first of the three leading Japanese auto makers to report financial results for the July-September quarter, said net income rose to Yen141.8 billion from Yen120.3, and revenue rose to Yen3.01 trillion from Yen2.89 trillion. But operating income fell to Yen164.4 billion from Yen171.4 billion.
Honda is the auto maker most affected by recalls of air bags from Takata, some of which have deployed with violent force, sending metal debris flying around the insides of cars. Twelve million vehicles world-wide, about half of them Hondas, have been recalled globally for the problem, which has been linked to at least two deaths and which has prompted an escalating investigation by U.S. safety regulators.
"We are reviewing our ties with Takata in terms of quality and supply," said Tetsuo Iwamura, Honda executive vice president, at a news conference.
Honda, which gets 50% of its air bags from Takata, has begun buying inflaters, which contain the explosive propellant that deploys the bags in accidents, from another supplier, Daicel Corp., to cover about half of its needs, Mr. Iwamura said. But Honda is also cooperating with Takata in investigating air bags in cars that have been recalled in an effort to spot problems, he said.
Honda has also suffered from its own manufacturing problems. The company said last week that more than a dozen top executives were taking three-month pay cuts to accept responsibility for the latest recall, involving about 426,000 Fit subcompact cars and other vehicles. The company said glitches in the rollout of a new version of the Fit have hurt sales in Japan especially.
Tatsuo Yoshida, an analyst at Barclays, said that while the quarterly results were "a bit of a disappointment," the shortfall in sales also reflected Honda's move to rein in marketing incentives in North America, which he called a positive step. Honda's investments in Asian markets outside Japan and China are also starting to show results, he added.
"The near term is going to be tough for them, but from a midterm to long-term perspective I'm still bullish on Honda," Mr. Yoshida said.
While Honda and other auto makers are still negotiating the cost of the air bag recall with Takata, the supplier has taken special charges totaling Yen75 billion to cover the recalls. In addition to the cost of the repairs, legal costs associated with the recall could mount, analysts said.
Honda has already settled several individual lawsuits for undisclosed amounts. People familiar with the matter said U.S. prosecutors are investigating Takata in connection with the air bag defects. In an indication of the high stakes, Toyota Motor Corp. in March paid $1.2 billion to settle a U.S. criminal investigation of its handling of a separate safety problem.
The potential legal liability "is the cost that nobody wants to talk about," said Scott Upham, a former Takata executive who is now president of Valient Market Research in Philadelphia.
The air bag case is unusual, analysts say, because it is one of the few recalls in which a parts supplier has been cited prominently alongside car manufacturers, which often bear the full burden of recalls. One of the few similar examples is Ford Motor Co.'s recall of millions of Explorer sport-utility vehicles equipped with Firestone tires 14 years ago.
Because scrutiny centers on Takata, Honda and other car manufacturers may be somewhat insulated from damage to their own brand image, said Karl Brauer, senior analyst at Kelley Blue Book.
"It's being seen more as a Takata or a supplier problem than a manufacturer problem," Mr. Brauer said.
Regardless of how contracts allocating liability for problems with parts might have been drawn up, the scale of the air bag recall could prompt Honda and other manufacturers to seek compensation from Takata, Mr. Upham said. But analysts say car makers are reluctant to cut their ties to the company entirely because they want to maintain a diversity of air bag suppliers. In addition to Takata, there are only two other big makers-- TRW Automotive Holdings Corp. and Autoliv Inc.
Shigehisa Takada, chief executive of Takata, apologized for "concerns and troubles to our product users, our customers and other stakeholders, " in a statement Monday.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410202039
SYMBOL = TM
Toyota recalls 247,000 vehicles over air bags
Toyota Motor Corp. 7203, +2.01% TM, -0.31%  recalled 247,000 vehicles that have an air bag that can rupture and send shrapnel into the passenger compartment, an expansion of an earlier recall that affected other models using the safety device built by supplier Takata Corp. 7312, +1.22%  
The recall of five Toyota models and one General Motors Co. GM, +0.03%  vehicle that was built on the same manufacturing line as one of the Toyota models came after Takata tested several air bags earlier this month that were recovered from vehicles located in the Southeastern U.S., where there is consistently high humidity. High humidity has been blamed for the malfunctioning parts.
The vehicles being recalled include the 2002-2005 Lexus SC; 2003-2005 Toyota Corolla; 2003-2005 Toyota Matrix; 2002-2005 Toyota Sequoia; 2003-2005 Toyota Tundra and the 2003-2005 Pontiac Vibe.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410030928
SYMBOL = GM
General Motors recalls another half-million vehicles
General Motors Co. announced two new recalls Friday covering almost 524,400 cars in North America, suggesting the auto maker is still struggling to meet new quality standards instituted by the company in the wake of its ignition-switch fallout.
This is now the third recall GM GM, +0.03%   has initiated since meeting with Wall Street analysts Wednesday. At that time, GM executives outlined the financial outlook for the company but never discussed the impending recalls or how much they will cost the company. The three recalls combined cover 642,650 vehicles.
Overall, GM has now issued 71 recalls covering 29.95 million vehicles in North America this year. The wave of recalls was triggered after the company stepped up its efforts to spot problematic vehicles in the wake of its ignition-switch issue.
The auto maker recalled 2.6 million vehicles over the possibility that a jarring of the ignition key could cause the switch to slip from “on” to “accessory,” cutting power to air bags and electric steering. A total of 23 deaths have been linked to the issue, and the number is expected to rise. GM waited 11 years to initiate that recall, resulting in a $35 million fine issued by NHTSA and a Justice Department investigation.
On Friday, the company recalled 290,107 Cadillac SRX from the 2010 through the 2015 model years and the Saab 9-4X SUV from the 2011 and 2012 model years. The rear toe adjuster could separate. Dealers will inspect for the condition and, if necessary, will remove them and install a new link assembly.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201409300821
SYMBOL = F
Ford sharply cuts full-year profit outlook
Just three months into the top job at Ford Motor Co., Mark Fields slashed the auto maker's full-year profit outlook on rising troubles in emerging auto markets and costs from quality troubles and U.S. recalls.
Mr. Fields told investors on Monday the nation's No. 2 auto maker by sales expects to report pretax profit this year of between $6 billion and $7 billion, approximately $1.5 billion less than it had forecast in July.
The largest factors: a roughly $1 billion larger tab for warranty and recall costs, a $300 million hit from declines in Russia, and a loss in South America that is $900 million larger than forecast. Better than expected unit volumes and pricing helped offset some of the shortfalls, it said.
Ford shares closed down 7.5% at $15.11 in 4 p.m. trading, the lowest close since March, and continued falling after-hours.
"The big shock today was the margin forecast given for North America," said Brian Johnson, Barclays auto analyst. Despite high expectations for the 2015 F-150 pickup truck, Ford's outlook for the rest of the year implies North American operating margins of between 8% and 9%, down from 11% last quarter.
The company now expects Europe to lose $1.2 billion on a pretax basis in 2014 and projects the red ink there would flow into 2015, although at a lower rate. Ford no longer expects European auto demand to return to prerecession sales levels even by 2020.
Ford also is suffering quality problems and has recalled 3.9 million U.S. vehicles so far this year, according to National Highway Traffic Safety Administration data.
Mr. Fields took over from former CEO Alan Mulally in July, and on Monday led a team of executives in laying out a road map for the business through 2020. While the company pointed out bright spots in Asia, North America and its Lincoln luxury brand,
Mr. Fields said the weak short-term outlook isn't casting a shadow over his early days as CEO. He said the company is "looking at reality and dealing with it in a proactive way."
The outlook wasn't entirely gloomy. Ford set targets Monday for the end of the decade across all of its businesses, including nearly a 50% growth in global deliveries, and double-digit margins for its Lincoln luxury brand. By 2020, Ford said it would deliver 9.4 million vehicles, up from 6.2 million in 2013.
Ford promised double-digit margins from the Lincoln brand in 2020 and volumes over 300,000, up from negligible margins and 100,000 units today.
Chief Financial Officer Bob Shanks said the Lincoln brand is going to be a "longer play," not producing strong profits until late in the decade.
Ford promised to invest $2.5 billion in the brand and add two new vehicles by the end of the decade. Lincoln's volume expansion is pegged primarily to Asia, where Ford said it may need to add additional plants.
Ford begins selling Lincolns in China in October and a new small crossover, the MKC, is selling well in the U.S., giving the brand a boost. Ford already has invested $5 billion in factories in China over the past few years.
In North America, Ford is expecting sales to grow by 500,000 vehicles to 3.4 million through the end of 2020.
Ford also told investors that due to higher costs to meet fuel economy standards globally, its profit margins would be lower than it had previously hoped in 2020. Ford hinted that the costs to add hybrid systems or lower the weight of vehicles couldn't be fully covered by higher pricing, primarily because fuel prices remain low
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201408131655
SYMBOL = AMGN
Amgen recalls syringes of anemia drug Aranesp
Amgen Inc. AMGN, -0.09% on Thursday announced it recalled a number of prefilled syringes of its anemia drug Aranesp after particles of what is believed to be cellulose and/or polyester were detected. Nine lots of the drug are being recalled as a precautionary measure, the company said in a press release. The recall does not affect any lots of the drug distributed in the U.S. Still, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has determined that the particles could bring about inflammatory and allergic responses, and could be life-threatening, Amgen said in its press release. The lots were distributed in 14 countries in Europe and the Middle East.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201407101607
SYMBOL = HMC
Honda recalls 175,000 hybrid cars in Japan: report
Japanese auto maker Honda Motor Co. 7267, +0.43% one of the world's largest engine manufacturers, is calling back more than 175,000 hybrid cars in Japan due to a software defect in the engine-control system, according to media reports on Thursday. All hybrid versions of Honda Fit subcompact and Vezel crossover are affected, a Honda spokeswoman told Bloomberg, adding that the defect could cause "unintended acceleration." It is Honda's fourth recall of these models, which were launched in Japan last year, the report added. Honda Motor Co. closed 0.6% lower in Japan on Thursday.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201407031610
SYMBOL = VRX
Bausch & Lomb recalls about 850,000 tubes of eye ointment
Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc.’s Bausch & Lomb unit has recalled at least 850,000 tubes of an eye-care ointment because some tubes contained tiny crystal particles that could injure the cornea.
Bausch & Lomb said Friday it believed the crystal particles formed when the tubes of Muro 128 ointment were exposed to freezing temperatures during shipments last winter.
The problem could cause injury to the cornea, leading to eye irritation and abrasions, Bausch & Lomb VRX, -0.01%  said in a recall notice it sent to retailers and distributors May 30, which instructed them to return the product. The recall wasn’t widely publicized; the U.S. Food and Drug Administration posted some details of the recall on its website this week.
The over-the-counter ointment is typically used as a nighttime treatment for corneal edema, or swelling of the outermost layer of the eye. Users are supposed to apply a small amount to the inside of the eyelid every three to four hours or as directed by a doctor.
Bausch & Lomb said it initiated the voluntary recall in the interest of patient safety after an increase in the number of complaints it received from users about a “gritty, sandlike feeling” in the eye after use of the product.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140627
SYMBOL = GM
GM recalls nearly half a million more vehicles
General Motors Corp. GM, +0.03% said late Friday that it will recall another 473,673 vehicles in North American due to various issues, the Wall Street Journal reported. The bulk of the recalls, 466,940, are for pickup trucks and sport-utility vehicles regarding a transfer-case issue, the newspaper said. Another 4,704 Chevrolet Caprice police cars and Chevy SS sedans have a motor-gear problem, while 1,939 Corvettes from the 2014 model year are dealing with shock-absorber troubles. These actions are the latest in a line of company recalls that have befallen the automotive giant.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201406251728
SYMBOL = GM
GM stops sales of Cruze due to faulty airbags
General Motors Corp. GM, +0.03% said Wednesday that it was halting the sale of 2013 and 2014 Cruze sedans due to potential flaws with airbags, Reuters reported. GM has yet to recall any cars already sold to consumers and is investigating how many may be flawed. Company officials told the news service they do not know whether there have been any casualties due to the issue. The news comes on the heels of a number of recall issues GM has faced involving thousands of its vehicles.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201406230706
SYMBOL = HMC
Honda, Nissan, Mazda recall almost 3 million vehicles
Three Japanese car makers said Monday they were recalling nearly 3 million more cars equipped with potentially faulty air bags from parts supplier Takata Corp., bringing the total number of vehicles affected by the bags to nearly 10 million.
Honda Motor Co. 7267, +0.43%  said it was recalling 2 million cars, including popular models like the Accord and Civic, to fix possibly defective inflaters in air bags made by Takata 7312, +1.22%  . Nissan Motor Corp. 7201, +1.57%  said it was recalling 755,000 vehicles, including Nissan cars and Infiniti luxury models. A third Japanese car maker, Mazda Motor Corp. 7261, +3.21%  , said it was recalling about 160,000 vehicles.
The latest moves follow an announcement by Toyota Motor Corp. about two weeks ago, in which it recalled more than 2.2 million vehicles equipped with Takata air bags.
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said last April, when Toyota, Honda and Nissan announced a recall of more than 3 million vehicles, that in the event of a crash, “the inflater could rupture with metal fragments striking and potentially seriously injuring the passenger seat occupant or other occupants.”
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201406161730
SYMBOL = GM
GM expands ignition-switch recalls
General Motors Co. GM, +0.03%  said Monday that it now expects to spend $2 billion during the first half of the year to cover its recall costs and announced plans to replace potentially faulty ignition keys on 3.37 million cars in North America.
The announcement comes two days before Chief Executive Mary Barra is set to testify before a congressional committee on the auto maker’s mishandling of an ignition switch recall in the Chevrolet Cobalt and other older models.
Company insiders say GM is working to “clear the decks” of any potential recall problems in a show of good faith to lawmakers who are currently investigating the auto maker.
The auto maker said it would take a $700 million charge in the second quarter, ended June 30, to cover the costs. The expense is in addition to the $1.3 billion the company spent in the first quarter.
This is now the second major ignition switch-related recall in less than a week, which is bound to confuse consumers. The auto maker recently recalled a half-million Chevrolet Camaros for switch issues.
The auto maker contends these latest recalls aren’t linked to the Chevrolet Cobalt because the switches are designed differently. However, in all three cases a bumping or jarring of the ignition key can move the switch to “accessory” from “run,” cutting power to the electric steering and air bag deployment.
GM will rework or replace the ignition keys on about 3.37 million 2000 to 2014 model year cars in the U.S. because the ignition switch may inadvertently move out of the “run” position if the key is carrying extra weight and experiences some jarring event.
GM intends to turn the slot on the end of the key head--used to hold a key ring--to a hole thereby alleviating the weight issue. The auto maker didn’t disclose if any injuries were attributed to the problem.
In addition to the key recall, GM also recalled 165,770 vehicles in five separate actions.
They include the recall of 68,887 model year 2013-14 Cadillac ATS and 21,863 model year 2014 Cadillac CTS sedans for shift cable problems. The recall of 16,932 model year 2011 Cadillac CTS sedans is because of a possible gasket leak.
The company also recalled 57,192 of its 2015 Chevrolet Silverado and 2015 GMC Sierra heavy-duty pickups to inspect for proper attachment of power steering hose clamps to the power steering pump.
Rounding out the recalls is 712 model year 2014 Chevrolet Corvettes because of a potential air bag problem and 184 model year 2014-15 Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra full-size pickups with vinyl floors and accessory all-weather floor mats purchased new with the vehicle. The mats can slip under the driver’s feet because the vinyl floors have no attachments to secure them in place.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201406101656
SYMBOL = GM
GM developing financial fallout estimate
General Motors Co. Chief Executive Officer Mary Barra said on Tuesday that the nation’s largest auto maker would likely provide shareholders an estimate of the financial fallout from a troubled ignition-switch recall by early next month.
Ms. Barra said the company would have a better sense of the costs facing it after compensation expert Kenneth Feinberg provides measures of how accident victims or their families will be compensated. Mr. Feinberg could provide that update within the next few weeks.
“At that point we will make an estimate,” Ms. Barra said ahead of the company’s annual shareholders meeting at its Detroit headquarters.
It is unclear if GM GM, +0.03%   will immediately share that figure or wait until its second quarter results which will be released July 24. The company will begin accepting claims from victims on Aug. 1.
Estimates for the price GM could pay to compensate victims, legal fees and any settlements or judgments range from less than $5 billion to as much as $7 billion.
Ms. Barra also declined to say if the company will increase the charges it has taken to this point to cover the costs associated with a variety of recalls. GM has already taken a charge of $1.7 billion for recalling and repairing 2.6 million vehicles equipped with potentially defective ignition switches along with other vehicles for other potential safety problems.
Shareholders gathered in Detroit on Tuesday for an overall business update and any details on how the ignition switch recall, fines and investigations would impact the auto maker’s balance sheet.
The company released an internal report last Thursday which cleared Ms. Barra and her executive team of any wrongdoing but criticized the company for a corporate culture built on shirking responsibility and management inaction. The company dismissed 15 people and disciplined five others.
“We feel we have taken the appropriate action as it relates to the ignition switch recall,” Ms. Barra said when asked if more action will be taken against employees.
Separately, Ms. Barra said the company continues probing all of its safety reviews but she feels the potential for another hidden ignition switch problem is unlikely. GM engineers discovered the defective switch in 2004 but didn’t initiate a recall until February of this year.
“I have nothing to conclude there is anything like this and we have been digging pretty deep and as issues are raised we will continue to do that, “ Ms. Barra said.
She said employees are “owning” the mistakes made in the ignition-switch recall and she has received hundreds of emails from employees offering both support and some flagging other problems within the company. Ms. Barra declined to identify those issues.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201406061611
SYMBOL = GM
GM announces another four recalls
General Motors Co. announced four new recalls Friday in keeping with ongoing initiative to review its entire vehicle portfolio in response to the ignition- switch recall scandal.
Chief Executive Mary Barra said Thursday more recalls were expected as the company reviews all of its vehicles for potential problems. Ms. Barra dismissed 15 employees and announced five others were disciplined for failing to report and take action on faulty switches that were first discovered in 2004.
The company GM, +0.03%  recalled 57,512 of its 2014 Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra pickups along with some 2015 Silverados, Tahoes, Suburbans, GMC Sierra, and Yukon models since the base radio may not work, preventing audible warnings if the key is in the ignition when the driver’s door is opened.
GM also recalled 31,520 model year 2012 Buick Verano, Chevrolet Camaro, Cruze and Sonic compact cars for a defect in the driver’s air bag.
The company recalled 61 model year 2013-2014 Chevrolet Spark and 2013 model year Buick Encores manufactured in Changwon, Korea, from Dec. 30, 2012 through May 8, 2013, because the vehicles may have a condition in which the front passenger air bag end cap could separate from the air bag inflator.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201406021643
SYMBOL = AAPL
Apple rolls out a more combative CEO
Beyond the new iteration of its operating systems and developer kits for the home and health care, Apple’s developer conference in San Francisco also unwrapped something new for the tech giant: a more combative Tim Cook.
In his keynote address on Monday, the Apple AAPL, +0.45%  chief executive took swipes at two key rivals, Microsoft and Google. He bragged about how OS X Mavericks has been adopted faster by Mac users, compared to the pace of adoption for Microsoft’s MSFT, -0.05%  Windows 8.
Minutes later he took aim at Android, Google’s GOOG, -0.11%  mobile operating system.
“More than 130 million customers who bought an iOS device in last year bought their first Apple device,” he said. “Many of them were switchers from Android. They bought an Android phone by mistake. And then sought a better life.”
The crowd of developers loved it, but some industry analysts were quick to note Cook’s new style.
“I don’t recall him dissing other platforms quite so strongly,” Roger Kay of Endpoint Technologies Associates told MarketWatch.
As the late Steve Jobs’s long-time lieutenant, he added, Cook was known to be “quite forceful,” but “he actually makes more of an impression with his silences sometimes than with his words, according to reports from internal meetings.”
“It looks like he’s been pretty cautious about competitors in public until now,” he added. “He mostly answers questions about other platforms by talking about Apple’s and how it’s doing. So, this is a break from the past.”
Rob Enderle of the Enderle Group also noted how Cook “really went after Google, which represents the bigger threat.”
But a more combative Cook could have a double-edged meaning. Cook has had to fill really big shoes after the passing of the iconic Steve Jobs, and the transition has not always been easy for him.
A more combative posture could be good for Apple has it takes on multiple challenges, including intense competition from the likes of Google and Microsoft, and a fast-changing tech landscape.
Kay called Cook “a tough negotiator. And now he has the role of defending the brand in public, which involves activities that his former boss used to handle.”
On the other hand, Cook’s tough talk also underscores the hurdles Apple faces now.
While Apple has strong positions in fast-growing segments of the tech market, led by smartphones and tablets, and is well-positioned in new trends in the so-called Internet of Things, Google has proven to be a robust and innovative rival, underscored by the position of Android as the dominant mobile operating system.
For instance, while Apple was the No. 1 tablet vendor in the world in the first quarter, Android remained the top operating system, with roughly two-thirds of the market share, according to IDC.
“When you are a leader you ignore the competition, when you’ve lost leadership you go after the leader,” Enderle said. “I think this indicates he recognizes his position in the market has changed.”
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201405150855
SYMBOL = GM
GM to take $200 million charge for recalls in second quarter
General Motors Co. GM, +0.03% said it will take a charge of about $200 million in the second quarter to cover the cost of recall-related repairs. The car company said it is making five safety recalls covering about 2.7 million vehicles in the U.S. The company is recalling 2.4 million previous-generation passenger cars for tail-lamp malfunctions, 103,158 previous-generation Chevrolet Corvettes for loss of low-beam head lamps, 140,067 Chevrolet Malibus for hydraulic brake-booster malfunctions, 19,225 Cadillac CTS 2012-14 models for windshield-wiper failures and 477 full-size trucks from the 2014 and 2015 model years for a tie-rod defect that could lead to a crash. Shares came under pressure in premarket trade and were last down about 1.3%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201404101742
SYMBOL = GM
GM lifts cost of recalls; first-quarter losses hit $1.7 billion
General Motors  GM +0.03%  said Thursday it now expects to take a $1.3 billion charge against its first-quarter earnings to cover the rising cost of its expanded recalls, well above its previous $750 million estimate.
GM also said it’s expanding the scope of its recall to replace 2.6 million faulty ignition switches to include the ignition lock cylinders. The move follows complaints that the ignition key can be removed while the engine is running, potentially causing a rollaway or crash.
These models are covered by the latest recall:
2003-2007 Saturn Ion
2005-2010 Chevrolet Cobalt
2006-2010 Pontiac Solstice
2007-2010 Pontiac G5
2007-2010 Saturn Sky
2006-2011 Chevrolet HHR
Since February GM has recalled nearly 7 million vehicles for a variety of safety issues. This has taken a toll on GM’s share price, pushing it nearly 19% lower so far this year.
On top of the $1.3 billion in recalls costs, GM earlier announced it’s taking a $400 million one-time charge to cover losses from currency fluctuations at its Venezuelan operations. Added together, one-time losses in the first quarter now stand at $1.7 billion, nearly as much as GM’s adjusted $1.9 billion income for the fourth quarter of 2013.
GM plans to release its first-quarter results on April 24 before the opening bell.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201404090537
SYMBOL = TM
Toyota recalls 6.4 million vehicles over five defects
Toyota Motor Corp. TM, -0.31%  issued five recalls Wednesday affecting a combined 6.39 million vehicles worldwide, in a possible blow to the Japanese company’s reputation for quality control.
The world’s largest auto maker said the company “isn’t aware of crashes, injuries or fatalities” caused by the five problems that prompted the decision to go ahead with the recall.
The recalls concern defects affecting seat rails, cables connected to air bags, engine starters, steering column brackets and windshield wiper motors.
The problems with the spiral cable assembly attached to air bags affects 3.5 million vehicles world-wide, including 1.67 million in North America. The problems involving seat rails affect 2.32 million vehicles globally, including 670,000 vehicles in North America.
Automobiles subject to the recalls include RAV4, Corolla, Yaris, Matrix and Highlander models.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201404040238
SYMBOL = GM
GM hires Jeff Eller as crisis manager: WSJ
General Motors Co. GM, +0.03% has hired an outside crisis manager, Jeff Eller, to deal with the company's response over its ignition switch recall, The Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday. Eller marks the third high-level outsider hired by the company, which earlier in the week announced Kenneth Feinberg will help GM with a financial response to victims, and Chicago attorney Anton Valukas is handling an internal investigation into how the company mishandled the recall. The WSJ also reported that GM has submitted 200,000 pages of records and answered more than 67% of questions from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration about the recall. The deadline for that information to be submitted was Thursday, but has been extended. GM Chief Executive Mary Barra was on Capitol Hill this week fielding questions from senators over the recall.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201502051622
SYMBOL = GPRO
GoPro profit surges on strong holiday demand
GoPro Inc., the maker of wearable video cameras, reported its profit for the fourth quarter nearly tripled on solid demand during the holiday season.
Results easily beat expectations.
GoPro makes wearable high-definition video recorders that first appealed to surfers and cyclists seeking ways to record cool tricks. They have since surged in popularity among the general public.
The stock has more than doubled from its initial public offering price of $24 in June but is down sharply from October's intraday high of $98.47.
"We're feeling good," Chief Executive Nicholas Woodman said. "GoPro was one of the best-selling products this holiday, selling-in an average of 1,000 units per hour for the entire quarter. With this many new recruits to the GoPro movement, we're sure to see some incredible content in 2015."
The company said it shipped 2.4 million capture devices in the quarter, topping its shipments for all of 2012. Analysts had expected camera shipments to exceed two million units for the period, which would be a record for the company. For 2014, the tally was 5.2 million.
Overall, GoPro reported a profit of $122.3 million, or 83 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier profit of $43.7 million, or 33 cents a share. Excluding one-time items, earnings improved to 99 cents a share.
Revenue surged 75% to $633.9 million.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected a per-share profit of 70 cents and revenue of $580 million.
Gross margin widened sharply to 47.9% from 41.9%.
The company is working to build a media business that features content captured with its popular cameras. It unveiled a deal last month to feature its GoPro Channel App on a new line of smart TVs from LG Electronics.
Other opportunities also abound. Mr. Woodman teased a crowd at the Consumer Electronics Show last month about speculation GoPro may be developing a drone product, which The Wall Street Journal has reported. GoPro also has yet to tap the Chinese market, where its popular brand may resonate despite competition from far cheaper devices.
GoPro has built a loyal following among fans of its rugged, sports-oriented cameras and accessories that allow auteurs to strap these devices to a helmet or the front of a bicycle. Thanks to strong sales growth in recent years, GoPro's cameras were the No. 1 selling camcorders in the U.S. by sales and units in 2013, according to its IPO prospectus.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201502121649
SYMBOL = KRFT
Kraft announces management moves as revenue rises
Kraft Foods Group announced more management changes and said its fourth-quarter revenue rose 2.2%, reflecting some improvement in pricing to offset higher input costs.
The company said Chief Financial Officer Teri List-Stoll, Chief Marketing Officer Deanie Elsner, and Chuck Davis, executive vice president of research, development, quality and innovation, will leave the company.
George Zoghbi, currently vice chairman of operations, research and development, sales and strategy, was named chief operating officer.
In December, Kraft KRFT, -0.23%  Chairman John Cahill replaced Tony Vernon as chief executive, signaling a desire for faster change amid an industrywide struggle for profitable growth.
Kraft said posted a $398 million net loss on a charge related to post-employment benefit plans.
Excluding the market-based impact on the benefit plans in both periods, operating income increased at a low single-digit rate, with a double-digit increase in earnings per share.
Kraft’s revenue rose to $4.7 billion from $4.6 billion. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected $4.625 billion.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20150212
SYMBOL = RIO
Rio Tinto unveils $2B share buyback, profit jumps
Rio Tinto PLC RIO, +0.00% said it would buy back US$2 billion worth of its shares as it reported a sharp increase in full-year net profit, despite sagging revenue due to weak iron-ore prices.
The Anglo-Australian miner Thursday said full-year net profit rose to US$6.5 billion from US$3.67 billion a year earlier, when results were hurt by multibillion-dollar writedowns against assets, including its Oyu Tolgoi copper project in Mongolia.
Its earnings missed a median consensus projection of US$8.38 billion from nine analysts polled by The Wall Street Journal.
Underlying earnings were lower as the miner, which relies on iron ore for the majority of its revenue, grappled with a near-halving in the raw material's value last year. Rio Tinto said underlying profit fell 9% to US$9.3 billion. Revenue fell 7% to US$47.7 billion.
In July, the world's No. 2 iron-ore exporter was approached by mining-and-trading company Glencore PLC about a possible merger. Rio rejected the proposal. U.K. takeover rules prohibit Glencore from making a new approach until April.
Rio Tinto meanwhile committed to "materially increased" cash returns for its shareholders, and Thursday said it intends to purchase about US$1.6 billion worth of its London shares, and US$400 million of its Australian stock. J.P. Morgan recently said it expected the miner to buy back US$1.5 billion to US$2 billion in stock this year, while Goldman Sachs had estimated a program worth about US$2 billion.
"Decisive early action throughout the group delivered the strong balance sheet, which enables us to announce today's additional material cash return to shareholders," Chief Executive Sam Walsh said in a statement.
The full-year dividend will total US$2.15 a share, Rio Tinto said, up from US$1.92 a year earlier.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201502031904
SYMBOL = SNE
Sony's fiscal Q3 profit likely edged Up slightly
Sony Corp. SNE, -5.98% is scheduled to announce its fiscal third-quarter earnings after the market closes on Wednesday. Here's what you need to know:
EARNINGS FORECAST: The entertainment and electronics giant is expected to report a net profit of ¥31.91 billion ($269.54 million) for the three months ended December, according to a poll of analysts surveyed by financial data provider Quick. A year earlier, it reported a net profit of ¥27 billion.
REVENUE FORECAST: Revenue is expected to stay flat at ¥2.36 trillion ($20.1 billion) from ¥2.41 trillion a year earlier.
WHAT TO WATCH:
--Preliminary data from Sony Pictures: Sony has said that figures from its Los Angeles-based subsidiary, Sony Pictures Entertainment, will be provisional, but investors will still keep an eye on them following the recent hacking attacks, which forced the studio to shut down its intranet system, making it unable to finalize its books before the earnings reporting deadline. Sony's electronics and financial units,will report their final numbers, though Sony's earnings as a whole will be subject to a revision at the end of March.
--Financial impact from hacking: Despite the attention the hacking incident got globally, analysts say the financial damage won't be severe to its earnings. "The Interview" ended up being one of the most-purchased content via video on-demand services in the U.S. Sony Chief Executive Kazuo Hirai also said in an interview in January (http://on.wsj.com/1wqhBPm) that the financial impact from the incident will be limited, though it won't likely provide upside potential either.
--Is the TV business turning the corner? Sony's TV business is expected to record an operating profit in the third-quarter, buoyed by ultra-high-definition sets called 4K. That would mark the third straight quarter of profit since March 2004. Analysts say the TV segment will turn into the black for the full year ending in March, after a decade of losses. Still, analysts are divided over whether Sony should keep the TV unit in house because the segment is expected to remain a low-margin business due to stiff competition.
--Mobile-phone plans: Its Xperia smartphone unit was the only unprofitable business during the July-September quarter, and Sony says overhauling the segment is an urgent task. It hasn't been able to present how it would revive the unit partly because the segment named a new chief, Hiroki Totoki, only a few months ago. Some analysts say Sony should shrink the smartphone business drastically-as well as the TV unit-to focus more on promising projects including the PlayStation videogame platforms. Analysts will be paying attention to any updates.
--Completing Restructuring Efforts: Mr. Hirai has repeatedly said the company would finish its large-scale restructuring efforts during this fiscal year ending in March and shift its focus to growth areas from April. Chief Financial Officer Kenichiro Yoshida says the progress is on schedule, and analysts will be confirming the latest update. While it's very unlikely, many analysts say Sony should cut jobs more drastically than it had announced, to be more profitable in the longer-term.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201502020855
SYMBOL = XOM
Exxon's profit falls 21% as production declines
Exxon Mobil Corp. said its fourth-quarter earnings dropped 21%, hurt by lower commodity prices, while the biggest U.S. energy company also unveiled plans to slash its share buyback program.
Exxon has long been a big buyer of its own shares, using buybacks as a way to provide currency for acquisitions, create demand for the stock, and reduce its share count.
Exxon said it plans to buy back $1 billion in shares in the current quarter, down from its previous level of $3 billion.
The buyback reduction comes as tumbling prices for crude oil eat away at Exxon's profit from tapping oil and gas. Exxon has stepped back production in recent quarters, but the company has yet to announce cuts to its spending plans for 2015.
Exxon's results had been buoyed by strength in its oil refining business, which benefits from cheaper crude. In the fourth quarter though, the division was hurt by higher planned maintenance and weaker margins in the U.S. division.
Refining and marketing earnings fell by 54% to $497 million.
Exxon pointed to its chemical segment as a driver of strength in the latest quarter. Earnings in the segment grew by 35% to $1.2 billion, boosted by stronger margins and low feedstock costs.
Meanwhile, earnings in Exxon's exploration and production business dropped by 19% to $5.5 billion, hurt by lower production. Production dropped 3.8% on an oil-equivalent basis.
Exxon's slumping production in part reflects a willingness to give up some less-profitable barrels, such as at a concession in Abu Dhabi that have expired. Exxon Chief Executive Rex Tillerson has made improving profitability one of the company's highest priorities.
In all, Exxon reported a profit of $6.57 billion, or $1.56 a share, down from $8.35 billion, or $1.91 a share, a year earlier. Revenue slipped to $87.28 billion from $110.86 billion.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected a per-share profit of $1.34 and revenue of $87.6 billion.
Capital and exploration expenditures increased 5.4% to $10.46 billion
On Friday, Chevron posted its lowest quarterly profit in five years and said it would trim its ambitious spending plans as the collapse in oil prices erased billions of dollars in cash flow.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201501290237
SYMBOL = DB
Germany's Deutsche Bank AG posted a surprise fourth-quarter net profit Thursday after slashing the reserves it set aside to cover looming legal action and on higher investment banking revenue.
Its net profit of EUR438 million ($494 million) compared with a EUR289 million loss forecast by analysts in a poll by The Wall Street Journal. The bank reported a EUR1.4 billion loss in the fourth quarter a year earlier.
Fourth-quarter revenue rose by 19% to EUR7.8 billion from EUR6.6 billion, due to an uptick in client activity in the bank's large fixed-income and currency trading operations. its entire investment banking business reported pretax profit of EUR516 million compared with EUR384 million a year earlier.
"While we are encouraged by many of our full-year and fourth-quarter business results, we are working hard to further manage our cost base, maintain our capital strength and increase our returns to shareholders," co-chief executives Anshu Jain and Jürgen Fitschen said in a joint statement.
Deutsche Bank set aside EUR207 million in reserves for litigation in the fourth quarter, below the EUR1.11 billion set aside a year earlier and less than the EUR900 million Morgan Stanley analysts had expected. Deutsche Bank said the lower litigation reserve "largely reflects timing differences as a number of major litigation cases have yet to be settled, " pointing to delayed settlement processes.
Deutsche Bank is one of a group global lenders under investigation for their alleged role in manipulating the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and currency fixings, and of violating U.S. sanctions. In total, Deutsche Bank has EUR3.2 billion in reserves to cover potential legal fines.
Apart from those looming fines, Deutsche Bank is in the midst of a strategy review that may result in it selling or cutting back some activities such as retail banking or investment banking, according to people familiar with the matter. The bank plans to announce the results of its review in the spring, when it belatedly hosts its annual news conference originally scheduled Thursday.
"We look forward to updating the market and all of our stakeholders, on the next phase of our strategy in the second quarter," Messrs. Jain and Fitschen said.
The presentation of a new strategic plan will mark a major step for the bank's co-CEOs, who took control of Germany's largest bank by market value from Josef Ackermann in mid-2012. Both men are under pressure to accelerate the bank's turnaround and improve results since its share price has been lagging that of international rivals over the past year.
Deutsche Bank's retail operations made a EUR55 million pretax profit, compared with EUR370 million expected by analysts and EUR218 million reported in the fourth quarter a year earlier. The decline comes as Deutsche Bank set aside more than EUR330 million for potential claims from retail banking clients following a recent verdict from Germany's Supreme Court that affects the wider German banking industry. Analysts hadn't included the hit in their estimates.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014120406:59
SYMBOL = SNE
Sony set to sell PlayStation 4 consoles in ChinaSony Corp. is readying the launch of its PlayStation console in China, as the entertainment giant seeks to capture a growing market where such devices had long been banned.
Sony Computer Entertainment Inc., the electronics firm's videogame arm, has sent local media invitations to a conference next Thursday at the Mercedes-Benz Arena in Shanghai, people familiar with the matter said. They also said the company plans to announce release dates and pricing information of latest-generation PlayStation 4.
Despite its promising market, China's restrictions on videogame sales--borne of concern about violent content--has challenged entry of global companies to the mainland. The sale of consoles exclusively made to play videogames is prohibited, for instance.
In January, China effectively lifted a 14-year-old prohibition on sales of videogame consoles as part of Shaghai's free-trade zone. In September, Microsoft Corp. started selling its Xbox One in China, while Nintendo Co. President Satoru Iwata recently said the firm is evaluating opportunities there as well.
Sony's PlayStation 4 has sold 10 million units globally in the nine months since its launch--the fastest pace of sales among PlayStation-brand hardware in the company's history. Entry to China's market could further beef up Sony's position as an industry leader, analysts say.
But while entry to China would boost Sony's long-term growth, the company faces some short-term challenges, said Yu Okazaki, an analyst at Nomura Securities.
One challenge Sony faces is China's culture of downloading game titles, rather than buying packaged software, they say.
Piracy and the so-called gray market pose another challenge. Typically, the gray-market vendors buy products overseas, often at a discount. The vendors then resell the products to consumers in China. Atsushi Morita, president of the company's entertainment arm in Asia, told The Wall Street Journal in September that the company is better prepared to counter piracy than in the past.
Originally started as a venture of Sony Corp. and Sony Music Entertainment 21 years ago, the electronics firm's videogame arm has been a bright spot in Sony's earnings, which have been battered by its struggling consumer-electronics performance. The videogame segment posted an operating profit of 21.8 billion yen ($182 million) in the July-September quarter, after recording another profit of 4.3 billion yen in the April-June quarter. The unit is also close to Sony's current chief executive, Kazuo Hirai, who spent much of his career there.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014112501:14
SYMBOL = WMT
Wal-Mart chief merchant to exit: sources
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.'s chief merchandising officer is expected to announce his departure from the retailer just days before the annual Thanksgiving shopping frenzy known as Black Friday, people familiar with the matter said.
Duncan Mac Naughton joined Wal-Mart in 2009 as chief merchandising officer of Wal-Mart Canada and moved over to the merchandising operations at the U.S. business in 2010.
The chief merchant plays a key role at any store chain, deciding on retailing strategy and choosing which products to promote to drive sales. Along with the rest of Wal-Mart's U.S., division, Mr. Mac Naughton has struggled to boost sales during two straight years of declining shopper traffic. In the quarter ended Oct. 31, the retailer posted its first sales increase since 2012, with a 0.5% gain excluding newly opened or closed stores.
A Wal-Mart spokeswoman declined to comment. Mr. Mac Naughton didn't answer a request for comment.
The executive, who has worked in the retail and the consumer packaged goods industries for more than 25 years, was considered a potential successor to lead Wal-Mart's U.S. business when U.S. CEO Bill Simon announced his resignation in July, according to people familiar with the matter. The U.S. division has more than 4,300 stores and last year brought in $279 billion in sales.
But Mr. Mac Naughton was passed over for the job in favor of Greg Foran, a New Zealander who had been running Wal-Mart's Asia division. Mr. Foran was appointed to the top job in July. Earlier this week, the company changed the reporting structure of the marketing division so the chief marketing officer would report directly to Mr. Foran, rather than to Mr. Mac Naughton, the people said.
This holiday season, Wal-Mart launched more than a week of deals ahead of the Thanksgiving holiday to encourage consumers to shop early and spend their dollars with the retailer.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014111009:26
SYMBOL = IBM
IBM wants startups on its cloud
International Business Machines Corp. is trying to lure startups to its cloud.
The tech giant will announce Monday that it is offering up to $120,000 in credits--$10,000 per month--to entrepreneurs who are willing to use IBM’s cloud software to launch their companies or develop apps and services. Entrepreneurs will also be introduced to IBM customers, receive advice on how to go to market and get tech support.
“Our mantra is speed and our mission is to grow out our cloud business,” said IBM General Manager of Ecosystem Development Sandy Carter, who proposed the program, called the IBM Global Entrepreneur Program for Cloud Startups, about two months ago. “...There’s so much potential in the global economy for entrepreneurs.”
IBM IBM, +0.01%   has been under pressure lately to overhaul its business after reporting 10 consecutive quarters of flat or declining sales, The Wall Street Journal said. IBM acquired the cloud-software company SoftLayer Technologies Inc. last year in a deal valued at about $2 billion, according to the Journal, and was reorganizing its cloud offerings around that software.
Carter, who’s been in her job since last year, said she got the idea for the program as she traveled the world and talked to entrepreneurs, whose influence she believes exceeds the size of their companies.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410200726
SYMBOL = IBM
IBM to transfer chip ops as revenue drops again
International Business Machines Corp. posted sharply lower earnings in its third quarter as sales fell across several divisions and the tech giant unveiled a deal to transfer its semiconductor operations to Globalfoundries Inc.
"We are disappointed in our performance," Chief Executive Ginni Rometty said. "We saw a marked slowdown in September in client buying behavior, and our results also point to the unprecedented pace of change in our industry."
IBM has now failed to generate a revenue increase for 10 straight quarters.
The company had been scheduled to report earnings after stock markets closed Monday. But the company put out an advisory Sunday saying it would announce significant news early Monday morning and also accelerate its earnings release.
Under the deal with Globalfoundries, IBM will pay the semiconductor company $1.5 billion to take over chip manufacturing operations, which will continue to produce processors used in IBM systems.
IBM has been reducing its reliance on hardware, with Lenovo Group Ltd. in early October completing a purchase of a business in commodity-style servers that use chips from Intel Corp. Software and services are now its biggest businesses, but neither has been growing much lately.
Big Blue said Monday that revenue from its global services segment fell 3% from the year-earlier period. Software revenue fell 0.4%.
Total revenue from IBM's Systems and Technology segment, which includes the company's computers, declined 14%. The company's other important hardware segment--the Power systems, based on IBM-designed computer chips, fell 12%.
In all, IBM reported net income for the quarter ended Sept. 30 of $18 million, or 2 cents a share, compared with profit in the year-earlier quarter of $4.04 billion, or $3.68 a share. Revenue fell to $22.4 billion from $23.3 billion a year earlier.
IBM said profit excluding items such as acquisition-related charges and retirement-related costs came to $3.68 a share. Analysts had expected earnings on that basis of $4.31 on revenue of $23.37 billion.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201410150805
SYMBOL = C
Citi’s consumer chief to depart
Citigroup Inc.’s Manuel Medina-Mora, head of consumer banking and chairman of the company’s troubled Mexico unit, is preparing to leave in coming months, according to people with knowledge of the situation.
The details of Medina-Mora’s possible departure haven’t been finalized and could change, but people familiar with the bank’s thinking say he will leave or announce his departure by early next year.
Several board members have pushed this year for the 64-year-old Medina-Mora to leave, three people said. But Chief Executive Officer Michael Corbat and Chairman Michael O’Neill have been supportive of the executive, two other people said.
Medina-Mora’s exit would come after a tough year for Citigroup’s Mexico unit, known as Banamex. The business was once a crown jewel for Citigroup, buoying the bank through the 2008 financial crisis.
It also helped Medina-Mora gain a foothold on Citigroup’s C, +0.04%  corporate ladder, so much so that he was once considered a contender for CEO.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014100906:19
SYMBOL = C
Citi to return $16 million to customers after investment-fee deal
Citigroup Inc. will return $16 million to customers who were allegedly overcharged for advisory fees on certain investment accounts, according to an agreement to be announced Thursday with the state of New York.
New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is expected to announce the agreement Thursday. More than 31,000 Citigroup C, +0.04%  customers around the country are eligible to get money back, according to the pact.
The accord concerns so-called TRAK accounts, which are a type of low-risk investment marketed to individuals and focused on mutual funds. Customers typically pay a fee of 1% to 1.5% for advisory services, according to Schneiderman’s office.
The Attorney General’s Office said its investigation stemmed from a 2012 complaint from a Westchester County resident, who said she had negotiated a 1.2% fee but was charged 1.5% over three years, amounting to an extra $3,000 in charges. The Attorney General’s Office found that other customers also were being overcharged after negotiating lower fees.
The Attorney General’s Office is continuing to investigate whether Citigroup customers were overcharged on other types of accounts. It said Citigroup has cooperated with the probe and will contact affected customers.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014100606:38
SYMBOL = HPQ
Hewlett-Packard plans to break in two
Hewlett-Packard Co. plans to break in two, separating its personal-computer and printer businesses from its corporate hardware and services operations, according to people familiar with the matter.
The company plans to announce the move as early as Monday, the people said. It is expected to be effected as a tax-free distribution of shares to the company’s stockholders next year, one of the people said.
The move is one H-P HPQ, +0.76%  and its investors and analysts have long contemplated. It would come amid a wave of breakups and spinoffs at technology companies and in the wider corporate world, underpinned by the idea that companies with a narrower focus perform better. The moves in many cases have been well-received by shareholders—if not actively sought by them.
Last Tuesday, online-auction pioneer eBay Inc. announced a plan to spin off its PayPal payments-processing unit. Shareholders rewarded eBay’s decision, pushing the company’s shares up about 7.5% that day.
This isn’t the first time H-P has come close to a decision to hive off its sprawling PC operation. In 2011, when it announced the ill-fated acquisition of U.K. software company Autonomy Corp., H-P said it was exploring a separation of its PC business. Under pressure from shareholders that led to the departure of then-Chief Executive Léo Apotheker, H-P reversed course two months later and said it would hold on to the business.
In 2012, under current H-P CEO Meg Whitman, H-P reorganized itself to combine the PC business with its more profitable printer operation.
Whitman will be chairman of the PC and printer business and CEO of the separate, so-called enterprise company, one of the people said. Current lead independent director Patricia Russo will be chairman of the enterprise company, while Dion Weisler, an executive in the PC and printer operation, is to be CEO of that business, this person said.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201502110652
SYMBOL = AOL
AOL Inc. is scheduled to report fourth-quarter results on Wednesday, before the market opens.
Rather than profit and sales, investors may focus more on the restructuring plan the Internet company is expected to implement this year, which should include job cuts and the closing of some branded websites.
In the conference call following third-quarter results, Chief Executive Tim Armstrong hinted that a restructuring might be coming, by saying the company was going to be “simplifying the portfolio” in 2015. AOL currently lists 36 content brands that it offers. The company said in its 2013 annual report that it has 5,100 employees.
Here are some other things to watch for:
Earnings: AOL AOL, -0.36%   is expected to report fourth-quarter earnings of 72 cents a share, according to a FactSet survey of sell-side analysts, up from 64 cents a share in the same period a year ago. The company matched expectations the previous two quarters, and missed the one before that.
Meanwhile, Estimize.com, which surveys buy-side investors, academia and individual investors, as well as sell-side analysts, is expecting earnings of 70 cents a share.
Revenue: Analysts polled by FactSet are expected revenue to rise $721.8 million from $679 million, according to FactSet, including advertising sales of $557.9 million and $148.2 million in subscription sales.
Share price: AOL’s stock has slipped 0.3% since the end of its third quarter, while the S&P 500 has gained 4.9%. So far this year, AOL shares have lost 2.9% while the S&P 500 has edged up 0.5%.
The average analyst rating on AOL’s stock is overweight, according to FactSet. The average price target of $49.21 is 9.8% above current levels.
Other issues: Analyst Youssef Squali at Cantor Fitzgerald said he expects the recent acceleration in growth in AOL’s networks division, and the improved pricing trends seen in its branded display division, will continue to boost results in the fourth quarter.
He also expects AOL to announce a round of layoff and the shuttering of some underperforming properties. “A look a comScore data reveals that several AOL sites have been experiencing a steep traffic decline including KitchenDaily, Pawnation, TUAW and Joystiq,” Squali wrote in a note to clients.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201411170552
SYMBOL = JD
JD.com swings to loss on Tencent tie-up costs
Chinese e-commerce firm JD.com Inc. JD, +0.22% swung to a third-quarter loss due to expenses from a tie-up with mobile messaging giant Tencent Holdings Ltd. (0700.HK) and other costs, as its expands to try to narrow the gap with market leader Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.(BABA)
JD.com said its net loss for the three months ended Sept. 30 was CNY164.4 million ($26.8 million), from a net profit of CNY75 million a year earlier. Revenue rose 61% to 29 billion. It forecast fourth-quarter revenue of between CNY32 billion and CNY33 billion, or annual growth of 59% to 64%.
The company said excluding one-off expenses related to the amortization of assets from its partnership with Tencent, earnings rose to CNY370.8 million from CNY141.2 million a year earlier. Gross merchandise volume or the amount of transactions on its site -- a key metric to measure the performance of e-commerce companies -- more than doubled in the quarter to CNY67.3 billion, the company said.
JD.com said expenses for marketing, technology, content, and general costs all more than doubled as the company expanded its infrastructure.
"Looking ahead, we will focus on ... expanding the range of products and services available on our platform, optimizing our mobile offerings and penetrating into fast growing lower-tier cities," said Richard Liu, JD.com chairman and chief executive, in a statement.
JD.com and Alibaba are China's largest e-commerce players, but have different business models. JD.com, like Amazon.com Inc., is an online retailer that mainly procures and sells products directly to consumers. Alibaba, by contrast, operates marketplaces where many merchants can sell their own products. Both companies listed in the U.S. this year, with high investor interest in China's booming e-commerce industry.
JD.com's key advantage over Alibaba is its faster average delivery time with its own warehouses, said Jefferies analyst Cynthia Meng. She said 80% of JD.com's orders in major Chinese cities can be fulfilled on the same day or the next, a higher percentage than Alibaba. But Alibaba has advantages of scale and offerings, with many more times the number of items in its online bazaars than JD.com.
In September, China's mobile messaging and online games leader Tencent struck a deal to join forces with JD.com in their mutual battle against Alibaba, with Tencent agreeing to use its popular chat apps to drive traffic to JD.com. In return, JD.com took over Tencent's e-commerce units, and Tencent acquired a stake in JD.com.
In the third quarter, JD.com had 46.1 million active customer accounts, compared with 22.1 million a year earlier, the company said.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = YUM
Yum! Brands was again hit by a chicken scandal in China that’s hurting restaurant sales.
The company’s massive reliance on the mainland exposes it to significant concentration risk.
Yum! Brands has undertaken measures to counter the weakness emerging from the meat scare and is working to revive consumer confidence in the brand.
Yum! Brands (NYSE: YUM), one of the leading American fast food companies and owner of KFC, Pizza Hut, and Taco Bell brands, entered China in 1987. Since then, the Mainland has become the company's No. 1 market. Out of the 14,000 KFCs worldwide, more than 4,500 are in China together with 1,200 Pizza Hut outlets and approximately 400 stores of China-exclusive brands like Little Sheep and East Dawning.
In the last couple of years, the company has faced a series of untoward episodes in China that led to disappointment among stakeholders. But the quick service restaurant (NYSE:QSR) behemoth handled the crises well to inch back to normalcy -- in the second-quarter results reported on July 16, Yum! Brands saw better-than-expected improvement in its China operations. Sadly, soon after, it got hit by yet another crisis. Though it's too early to say how deep the ill effects will be, here's a lowdown on what's happened and its implications. Also, a look at the measures taken to counter the previous crises will help us gauge its ability to fight the latest challenge.
Why is China So Important?
The Mainland offers tremendous growth opportunity to the QSR companies. According to researcher Market Realist, there are only two restaurants per million people in emerging markets in comparison to 58 food outlets per million in the U.S. With rising disposable income and climbing discretionary spending, the market holds immense prospects.
China is the engine of growth for Yum! Brands as it is the company's biggest and most lucrative market. In the second quarter, the company earned more than 90% of the total KFC profit from its international operations with China being the main pillar of support. Restaurant margins showed marked improvement of 6.2 percentage points to 16.8%, while operating profits climbed by a staggering 188% to $194 million. The company opened 104 outlets during the period that aided top line growth. In 2014, the company plans to open 700 new units in the country and targets a three-year cash back period to recover the investment. CEO David C. Novak said he was reasonably satisfied with the progress the company was making with KFC outlets.
In the second half of July, the Louisiana-based company found out that one of its Chinese suppliers Shanghai Husi Food -- a unit of Chicago-based OSI Group -- supplied meat that had crossed the expiry date. Since then, sales at KFC and Pizza Hut have declined sharply. Sadly, this is not the first time Yum! Brands' got entangled in a food safety scandal. In 2012, it was the chicken scare, and in early 2013, the avian flu outbreak. The two together had hit Yum! Brands' comparable store sales in China by 20% in the first quarter of 2013. And now that sales were stabilizing with China comps going up by 15% in the second quarter, the incident has stopped the company in its tracks.
If the recent meat incident has a prolonged bearing, it might materially damage the company's full year earnings outlook. Company VP finance David E. Russell said that events such as these draw "extensive news coverage in China", shaking consumer confidence and marring brand image.
Yum! Brands has always been very quick in responding to any quality issues. In 2012, after the chicken scandal, it took instant action and severed ties with suppliers guilty of malpractices. The fast food major worked toward enhancing the Chinese customers' satisfaction by taking various measures. It's been focusing on value meals with greater stress on making superior quality offerings. At KFC, the company is upgrading its menu, redesigning the packages, refreshing its look with new uniforms for its staff, and giving free Wifi access to its customers. All these steps bore fruit as seen in the second quarter when China division's sales jumped 21% compared to the year-ago period.
This time too, Yum! Brands has dissolved its relation with local vendors and Shanghai Husi Food. It will also apply the tried and tested strategy of providing any one particular meal at 50% discount each day to drive sales. It was toying with the idea of starting a mobile application so that customers have the choice of pre-ordering using the app for payment, and could soon bring this online.
But, considering the frequency with which food related incidents are occurring, it would be great if the fast food giant can build its autonomous inspection unit to monitor quality and keep a check on supply chain. As a measure, the company may also alter its source of chicken, similar to what McDonald's (NYSE:MCD) proposed for its Japanese outlets. The Big Mac maker has recently shifted to Thai vendors for chicken supply for its Japan restaurants.
Recurring food safety scandals in China have been a drag on the American fast food giant's financials as it vastly relies on this emerging market for its development. The company's done well to arise out the lows by taking immediate action and devising strategy to win back the trust of customers. In the short run, the state of affairs might look topsy-turvy for the company, but with strategic planning and corrective measures, Yum! Brands could find a way to handle the situation.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = TSLA
Bullish investors mindlessly push Tesla's stock from one high to the next.
Tesla is a crowded trade and predominantly loved by retail investors.
Company trades at nearly 80 times earnings and more than 13 times sales after second quarter earnings.
Tesla's valuation has run way ahead of its fundamentals and might (again) be a very attractive Short candidate.
Tesla's (NASDAQ:TSLA) stock has been on a roll lately: Over the last month alone, it increased about 19%. Since the beginning of the year, shares of the hyped electric car manufacturer rose a whopping 75% with new impulses coming from the announced Tesla/Panasonic gigafactory agreement and well-received second quarter results. However, just because Tesla's stock rises and investors love it, doesn't mean the company is not mis-priced.
Quite the opposite is true: I believe Tesla is one of the most mis-priced stocks in the marketplace, but little can be done at any particular moment to correct such a mistake if the herd is stubbornly convinced a valuation of nearly eighty times forward earnings is appropriate for a deeply free cash flow negative company.
At the end of February 2014, I again recommended investors to short Tesla at approximately $210 due to valuation concerns. I wrote:
Tesla's free cash flow profitability was previously a serious concern for me and I don't think that the company's results, despite decent y-o-y improvements, justify a current forward P/E ratio of 60 and a P/S ratio of 13 -- especially with Ford's results and valuation metrics in comparison. Add to that the ongoing uncertainty about the investigation by the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which, in the worst case, could impose substantial costs for Tesla if recalls are required.
Shortly after the publication of my short thesis on Tesla, the stock indeed began to tank and ultimately fell back to $179 in May 2014. With a series of promotional news (gigafactory anyone?), Tesla's stock price, however, quickly reversed course again and subsequently reached new 52-week Highs. Shares are now trading at around $262 and are sitting just below Tesla's most recent 52-week High at $266.
Second quarter results weren't spectacular at all
Tesla's flagship product, the Model S, saw deliveries of 7,579 units in the second quarter and a production volume of 8,763. Tesla has guided to a total delivery volume of 35,000 units or more in fiscal 2014, which would translate into about 8,750 cars per quarter.
On the financial side of the business, Tesla certainly increased revenues by a respectable margin: Its second quarter revenues came in 90% higher at $769 million vs. last year's $405 million while Tesla's net loss doubled from $31 million in Q2 2013 to $62 million in the most recent quarter. On a per share basis, Tesla's net loss increased from $0.26 in last year's second quarter to $0.50 in the most recent quarter.
More importantly, Tesla's free cash flow continued to look really dismal and actually worsened year-over-year: The company reported a negative free cash flow of $177 million, much higher than last year's negative FCF of $77 million.
In addition, Tesla's second quarter operating cash flow was also negative.
Though I get the growth story that is being repeated over and over by bulls, I doubt that these financial results justify a current market capitalization of $33 billion, which equates to about 80x forward earnings and implies an outrageous sales multiple of more than 13x.
What we see with Tesla in the marketplace is a prime example of herding behavior and investors speculating on further short-term momentum. However, this seems to be an inherently unstable situation. Tesla's valuation has certainly run way ahead of its fundamentals even after considering second quarter 2014 results, which were (wrongfully) cheered by investors.
Tesla's stock has had a great run over the last couple of months and the excitement was largely fueled by speculators who bet on ever increasing stock prices.
As stock market history has revealed over and over, buying stocks when everybody else does is a clear sign of forthcoming troubles.
The potential for trouble, though, is magnified if stocks trade at indefensible valuations, which clearly is the case here.
I cannot help but dislike Tesla purely from a valuation point of view and because of its unattractive free cash flow profile. A lot of it has to do with the notion that Tesla is perceived as an infallible company which is about to revolutionize the car industry. In addition, Tesla clearly benefits from its charismatic CEO, Elon Musk, who excites investors, but who last year also argued that Tesla's stock appeared to be overvalued -- Tesla was trading at around $160 at the time.
With the valuation ratios witnessed in the market (80x forward earnings, 13x sales), one has to conclude that Tesla's stock price has largely run ahead of its fundamentals. Tesla needs stunning performance results in the future in order to grow into such lofty valuation figures.
Given the extreme amount of bullish articles on Tesla on the internet as well as on Seeking Alpha, it is clear that the electric car manufacturer has become a crowded trade, which shouldn't bode well for Tesla's stock price. Ultimately, gravity will catch up. Short.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = KO
Coca-Cola is one of the best known dividend payers in the history of the public markets.
The company has a 120+ year history, major brand recognition, and serious pedigree. However, the company has been looking for ideas to "energize" its growth of late.
We like the reasoning behind Coke getting involved in Monster, and we like the way they are engineering the deal.
We don't think that there's a whole lot to dislike about Coca-Cola (NYSE:KO). It's the kind of company that fits right into the investment style that we like.
It's been around for 120+ years
It has a constant history of raising its dividends
It is a global brand with a large international footprint
It's a brand name that has recognition and prestige
It's a low beta name that has weathered constant bear markets and bounced back with continued growth
Buy and hold investors, we believe, can always look to Coca-Cola as an outlet for money they are looking to invest into the equity markets. Of recent, however, worries have been abound in the Coke camp, as domestic sales volumes have had some investors falling into a McDonald's (NYSE:MCD) like funk about whether long-term growth prospects would be effected.
Coke's plans of rebranding some of its drinks and experimenting to try and boost growth have mostly failed. From an investor's standpoint, the stock has been red this year to the tune of about 1% while the S&P has flourished. In that time, however, Coke's yield has been 2.90%.
Global growth came in around 3% over the last quarter for Coca-Cola. While this is a figure indicative of a behemoth company the size of Coca-Cola simply "chugging along", the company has been trying to figure out a way to improve on this while keeping up their home turf foundation here in the U.S.
If there was one thing we could take from PepsiCo (NYSE:PEP) and transplant into Coca-Cola, it would be a little more diversification. Namely, the fact that PepsiCo has its snack product division, which gives it a little safety net if beverage sales pull back. For Coke, this is where the recent deal with Monster comes in.
The company, since originally forming as Hansen Beverage in the 1930s, has turned itself into the hottest name in the energy drink business short of Red Bull. Investors have been brought on a lovely ride since the company became Monster in 2007.
The stock ripped higher 30% on Friday after the news of the Coke partnership was announced. While some of this was due to the sales potential associated with it, we also believe that the Coke name simply carries the prestige with it that could facilitate this move upward on its own.
People that were already thinking about diversification were likely happy to see Coke's stake in Green Mountain (NASDAQ:GMCR) through their partnership announced early this year. However, the Green Mountain partnership has not yielded any tangible results as of yet, and investors are still waiting to see the fruits of that deal come into bloom.
Put simply, we like everything about the Monster deal for Coke.
We like the reasoning behind going after the Monster brand.
There are many obvious reasons to go forward with this transaction. Obviously, we think this is going to help spur growth for Coke in a new mini-sector of their industry. Energy drinks and the growing variety of energy drinks being produced by Monster are now still "emerging" with younger generations and especially for those that don't like good old fashioned hi-test coffee, which is what we stick with here in the OPI offices. Call us "old school".
It's going to be great in a diversification sense, as well. With the Green Mountain deal in place and this deal now in place, Coke has started to spread out a bit, albeit still under the umbrella of the beverage sector. Are snack foods next?
We like the way that Coca-Cola is going about it.
First, they're financing the transaction with cash on hand. We like any deal that doesn't require taking on new debt.
Second, Coke is going to transfer its underwhelming energy brands (most notably Full Throttle and NOS) over to Monster to see if they can help give them a boost. Costs associated with competing with Monster are going to continue to fall off, we believe.
Third, the company is being smart about managing the risk involved here. Namely, the risk involved with energy drinks is that they're at some point either going to be regulated or that they're going to ultimately be found as dangerous.
Rather than Coke diving right in, they're taking a small stake in Monster to "test the waters", a sure fire conservative sign of a company that's looking to protect its 120+ year pedigree.
Based on the above, we rate Coca-Cola with a JUICY (BUY).
At the office, we believe that Coke's pullback over the last 6-8 months coupled with this transaction has created opportunity for those looking to add low beta deep value to their portfolio. We believe Monster to be a brand with staying power, even more now that it's linked to the Coke name. We believe we have a mutually beneficial relationship between these two entities and that 2015 could be the year for Coke that finally eases investors' tensions that have been brought to a head over the last few quarters.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = WMT
Capex is ongoing but has decreased as the company more fully penetrates its markets.
Investing in price creates a headwind for margins, but also creates an intangible asset of brand strength.
Investing in staffing and leadership may improve comps over time.
Wal-Mart is a buy at current prices: moderate growth can be expected due to well thought out investments in capex, price and staffing.
As Wal-Mart's (NYSE:WMT) comparable store sales have deteriorated, the stock has been priced down to a bargain level when its economic muscle and brand strength are properly evaluated. The company continues to invest in growth, some of it reflected in cash flow as capex, and some passing through the income statement as expenses.
Reading 2Q 2015 earnings call transcript, I was struck by the repetitious references to the concept of price investment, as well as the assertion that the company is "investing" in staffing and leadership. From an accounting viewpoint, these are expense items. However, the entrepreneurial mindset sees them as investments that will generate future income, and in effect capitalizes them.
Specifically, I counted 11 references to "price investment" or variants thereof. That includes 2 instances where the cost was quantified in basis points.
What I see is a focus on maintaining the brand's strength as the perceived low cost provider of a multitude of products. They attempt to achieve this by being consistent, and in point of fact they ate some of the increased cost of meat when prices spiked. They believe that shoppers eventually tire of the games supermarkets play with pricing.
I was vehemently critical of Darden's (NYSE:DRI) CEO when he talked about investing in price at Red Lobster. I felt the endless AYCE promotions had cheapened the brand. I've seen a couple of retailers get in trouble by trying to avoid promotions and discounts in for example clothing or other seasonal items.
After thinking about this for a while, I'm proceeding on the basis that for Wal-Mart price investment creates customer loyalty, and is part of its strength as an iconic brand. It's how they got to where they are today. With that in mind, I don't think small fluctuations or decreases in margin are cause for undue concern.
Investing in Staffing and Leadership
In March last year, Bloomberg published an article asserting that certain Wal-Mart stores were so thinly staffed that the merchandise wasn't making it onto the shelves, and customers were going elsewhere. Evidence was anecdotal, but had a ring of credibility.
The conference call linked above includes a mention of investments in additional hours:
Operating income was pressured by investments in additional associate hours and by higher healthcare costs. We'll keep working during the back half of this year to get the combination of price investments and store associate hours right to deliver improved comp sales and serve our customers in a way that exceeds their expectations here in the U.S.
During the quarter, we also allocated additional associate hours to specific areas of the store, such as front end, deli, bakery, and overnight stocking to improve overall customer service. We also sustained incremental labor expenses related to major department re-lays in entertainment and sporting goods. In total, salaries and wages were up more than $200 million compared to last year.
The previous quarter's call includes a discussion of corrective action in terms of additional staffing:
In October, we communicated that 90% of our supercenter fleet was performing well. In Q1, these stores delivered a positive comp and improved over Q4 last year. For the remaining stores that require special attention, we've developed unique, store-specific action plans and we're investing in leadership and additional staffing.
Management is responding to the issue, and adding employees or increasing hours where necessary.
Home Depot (NYSE:HD) had inadequate staffing levels under the leadership of Bob Nardelli, and profitability was severely impacted. Frank Blake was brought in to turn the situation around. He correctly identified the problem, added an appropriate number of employees, and results improved substantially.
Wal-Mart's previous margins may have reflected inadequate staffing. As such, they may have been unsustainable. Somehow it sounds better to think of additional associate hours as an investment. In any event, corrective action is being taken.
Capex, as a percentage of revenue, has decreased from 4.48% to 2.58% over the past 10 years, reflecting reduced growth opportunities in the big box bricks and mortar category.
Investments are focused on e-commerce, to include a new distribution center, and small format stores, where $600 million was deployed to accelerate the roll-out.
TTM ROE at 22.1% and ROIC at 13.6% demonstrate profitable deployment of capital. Both figures are consistent with 10 year averages. There is every reason to expect that current investments will be equally profitable.
Over the past 5 years, Wal-Mart has traded at an average PE5 of 15.33. Calculating 5 year average EPS, share count adjusted, at $4.96, I multiply by 15.33 and arrive at a fair value of $76. As such, recent prices in the $74 area may be regarded as normal.
A recent article in Bloomberg mentions that the S&P 500 is trading at a multiple of 21 on 5 year average earnings:
While analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect earnings to expand by more than 8 percent a year through 2016, Ramsey at Leuthold said investors should prepare for profit growth to have less of an impact on prices. Using a formula that smoothes out income over five years, the S&P 500 is trading at a price-earnings ratio of about 21, his data shows.
I didn't do the math, but 21 sounds about right. So, with a beta of .37, WMT trades at a 29% discount to the index, based on 5 year average EPS.
Meanwhile, the dividend yields 2.5% and has increased steadily over the years, while share counts have been declining about 2.5% per year over the past 10.
Buying at recent prices in the $74 area, investors can reasonably expect an increasing flow of dividend income and eventual share price appreciation. The valuation is attractive on a risk-adjusted basis, when compared to the S&P 500 index.
The company faces headwinds, but management is aware of the difficulties, has a plan of corrective action, and the resources to carry that out. The situation should be monitored quarterly with attention to comp sales, e-commerce growth, success with new formats, and success in turning around the 10% of under-performing stores.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = EROC
Eagle Rock Energy Partners has completed the sale of its midstream business, leaving the company as a pure play upstream MLP.
Management must now prove it can manage an MLP to generate growing cash flow and distributions to investors.
A DCF estimate puts the restarted distribution rate at a 5% to 6% yield, well below the typical 9% paid by established upstream MLPs.
I last wrote on Seeking Alpha about Eagle Rock Energy Partners LP (NASDAQ:EROC) in October 2013. At that time I warned that the company was overloaded in debt the $0.88 annual distribution per unit would soon be cut due to rapidly declining distributable cash flow. The next distribution was cut to $0.15, down from $0.22, and the lower rate was paid for just two quarters before distributions stopped after the February payment. When the article published, EROC was at about $7.25 per unit yielding 12%. Currently the unit is trading for $4.34.
In late December 2013, Eagle Rock Energy Partners and Regency Energy Partners LP (NYSE:RGP) announced that Eagle Rock would "contribute" its midstream assets and business to Regency in exchange for a combination cash, assumption of EROC debt, and RGP units totaling about $1.3 billion. The goal was to leave Eagle Rock as a pure-play upstream MLP with a very low debt load. The EROC distribution was suspended after the February payment until the "contribution" was consummated and Eagle Rock was able to focus on its upstream business. The deal with Regency closed on June 30.
With its second quarter earnings, Eagle Rock reported adjusted EBITDA for the remaining upstream business, with the midstream portion of revenues and earnings classified as discontinued operations. From various parts of the earnings release, I was able to pull together enough numbers to put a rough estimate on the third quarter DCF. Here goes:
Q2 adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations: $24.9 million
Positive impact on G&A expenses after contribution: +$3.5 million -- Reported Q2 G&A of $12.0 million and forward guidance of $8.2 to $8.7 million.
Minus quarterly maintenance capex guidance of: $13.5 million
Interest per quarter on $250 million of remaining debt at 8.5%: $5.3 million
Result: An estimated third quarter DCF of: $9.6 million
DCF/unit with 160 million outstanding equals: $0.06
Look for Eagle Rock Energy Partners to declare a Q3 distribution of $0.06 to $0.07 per unit. This gives a yield range of 5.3% to 6.2% based on a $4.50 unit price.
Note: in the earnings conference call, management stated it would like to maintain a 1.1 to 1.2 times coverage ratio. My estimate has coverage at 1.0 to less than 1x. For reasons listed below, I think management and the Board will be a little more aggressive when restarting distributions.
Some Extenuating Factors
A big plus Eagle Rock has in its favor are the 8.25 million RGP units, worth $255 million, the company now owns. According to the earnings conference call, the plan for those units is to sell them to fund growth capex spending. In the meantime, the RGP holdings will throw off $4 million per quarter in cash distributions to Eagle Rock. That cash provides a 40% cushion on my estimated EROC distribution.
I looked at the DCF to adjusted EBITDA ratio for several of the smaller upstream MLPs. For Eagle Rock's peers, 50% to 70% of EBITDA falls to the DCF line. In the math above, the calculated DCF is 28% of the estimated EBITDA. If Eagle Rock can grow production and revenue without proportionally increasing the overhead, the company has some room to grow DCF before jumping the market to buy production assets. Management guidance for the second half of the year has average daily production increasing by 2.5% to 9.5%.
Investment Value Needs Significantly Better DCF in Q3
My estimated 5.3% to 6.2% yield when Eagle Rock restarts its distributions is less that the 6.3% the company is earning from the RGP units. With the divestiture of its midstream business, the company has stopped the cash flow hemorrhaging, but what remains is not a compelling investment story. The Eagle Rock management team needs to figure out a way to under guide and over perform. Something on the order of 10% per quarter DCF growth for the next several quarters will be necessary for EROC to be a more compelling investment story than the rest of the 8% to 10% yielding upstream MLP group.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = DDD
Several stock in the 3-D space have corrected by as much as 75% over the past several months.
And if I am correct, many of these stocks will underperform for many years.
Growth does come at a premium; however, there are limits to what this premium should be.
While innovative companies and exotic technologies get many investors excited, one must be very careful before deciding to buy many of these stocks for the long term. Because if you overpay for growth, more than likely your portfolio with either will underperform or lose money long term.
One such set of stocks is the 3-D space. Year-to-date, Stratasys (NASDAQ:SSYS) is down by 16%, 3D Systems (NYSE:DDD) 47%, The Exone Company (NASDAQ:XONE) 54% and Voxeljet (NYSE:VJET) 60% (as of Friday August 16, 2014).
One of the reasons why Warren Buffett has been able to outperform the market for so many years is because he buys companies at a fair price. When looking at the long-term picture, the multiple you pay today makes a very big difference in terms of performance over the long term.
But when investors overpay for growth, and those growth prospects don't materialize or something goes sour along the way, then stocks either crash or underperform for many years, and it might take years to recoup your initial investment, if you are lucky.
And while trading short term is part of the game - long, short, intraday or any possible combination that makes you money - if you are betting on the long-term picture, many stocks that are too rich should be avoided.
As long-time readers know, I place a great deal of emphasis on the valuation of a company by looking at the Price/Sales ratio. And while the Price/Sales does not tell much about a company, it does give you some clue if you are overpaying or not, when a comparison is done with other stocks within the same sector or the market as a whole.
From the data above, we see that the market seems content to pay about 7 times revenue for the first three stocks of the sector, with Voxeljet still selling at a very big premium to the sector. In fact, Voxeljet has already corrected by about 75% from its high reached in November of 2013. And if you want my opinion, it is still way too rich for any long-term investor, and carries a great premium to the sector as a whole.
In my book, 5-7 times revenue for any stock is too rich. Yes, most of these stocks are profitable and they have a bright future; however, one has to put that in perspective in terms of valuations.
The average Price/Sales ratio of the S&P 500 index, according to data from S&P, is currently 1.71, with the median being 1.41 and a high of 1.81 being reached in December of 2000 (also a sign that the market might be stretched altogether).
Granted, high-growth stocks deserve a premium, however, if future revenue and profit estimates for these stocks come down, then you can expect many of these stocks to either crash or simply underperform for many years to come. And in my book, this is a gamble that a long-term conservative portfolio cannot undertake.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = SOHU
Sohu is facing intense competition for online video content, which is pushing prices higher.
Falling margins are putting pressure on Sohu's profit outlook.
Since Tencent acquired a minority stake, Sogou has seen impressive growth.
The Tian Long Ba Bu game is coming to the end of its life cycle, so Changyou needs its new portfolio of games to replace its revenue.
Online game revenues as a proportion of total revenues continues to fall.
Sohu's (NASDAQ:SOHU) Q2 earnings release on July 28th gave investors an insight into the changing face of online media in China, with revenues missing analysts' expectations and earnings beating consensus. This analysis discusses how investors should begin to focus less on Changyou's (NASDAQ:CYOU) established games and more on the competitive online video content market.
Sohu is a leading Chinese language web portal, which comprises of leading search engine Sogou, leading online game developer Changyou, a US-listed subsidiary of Sohu, video content platform Sohu TV, as well as news and media portal Sohu.
The overall strategy for Sohu media is to increase monetization through data mining, as well as mobile monetization. Sohu News is collecting and analyzing user data across its various platforms, in order to understand user habits, because the firm is actively trying to further monetize the Sohu News app and Sohu WAP portal. One such way is by launching new ad formats, in addition to the traditional banner ads, such as loading page ads and newsfeed ads. The firm is leveraging their different mobile platforms, including video, news and WAP, as well as the Sogou Pinyin Chinese language input function, in order to cross market their video content to all users.
Sohu Video benefited from a strong June, where combined traffic grew 26% sequentially, and during the first two weeks of July, traffic had grown a further 24%. It is worth noting that the Gaokao university entrance exam finished in the second week of June, and university students would have returned home at the end of June. The pursuit of quality content is currently a common theme within the industry. As well as an extensive portfolio of domestic TV dramas, they've expanded their library, particularly focusing on American content, debuting the Conan O'Brien Show in June. Likewise, the animation content is growing, with a large variety of domestic and Japanese programmes. They took advantage of major events such as the World Cup in order to promote mobile apps. Sohu collaborated with China Telecom to offer its subscribers free World Cup viewing packages in the Sohu Video app.
Changyou was originally a business unit of Sohu, until it was spun out as a separate company in 2007 and subsequently listed on the NASDAQ in 2009. The company currently operates one of the most popular MMOGs in China called Tian Long Ba Bu (TLBB), as well as two popular web games called Wartune and DDTank, and operates the leading game information portal 17173.com. Over the quarter, Changyou had 252m average monthly users, which is year on year growth of 192%. Of this, roughly 50m were sourced from mobile apps. Yet despite this, Changyou saw relatively soft performance from the existing portfolio of games, which has seen expansion packs added to the TLBB game to decrease the difficulty. This is common when a game is coming to the end of its life, because the big spending gamers will likely have already completed the game and spent enough money, so by decreasing the difficulty, Changyou is just appealing to the casual and low spending gamers. Whilst mobile gamers are a big source of user traffic, it's worth noting that Tencent is actively expanding its game network on its WeChat and Mobile QQ platforms, making it a very large player in the market.
There is a more interesting trend that can be seen across recent quarterly reports. As TLBB's life cycle is coming to an end, online game revenues either remained stagnant or have fallen, whilst total revenues have risen. This is concerning because Sohu has been reliant on strong revenues from Changyou's online games, but they now require their new portfolio of games to replicate the success of TLBB. Also, Sohu's revenues are becoming more dependent on advertising. As I will discuss later in this analysis, Sohu is facing rising costs and intense competition for video content, which is directly affecting their advertising revenues. From this, I expect Sohu's revenues to become more unstable as they become more dependent on video revenues.
Sogou is the search engine subsidiary of Sohu, and is the third largest in China based on revenues and user base, with 3.7% of the market, behind Baidu and Google China. On PC, the user base expanded to 480m, and mobile monthly active users exceed 200m, making it the number two in the market, behind Baidu. During Q2, Sogou continued to make solid progress in other key products, such as the browser and the Pinyin system. This is a Chinese character input system that uses Sogou's search data to understand which characters are the most popular and most common. In fact, Sogou Pinyin is working exclusively with Tencent's QQ instant messenger, so that QQ users can use their personalised emoticons in other apps via the Sogou Pinyin input system.
In September 2013, Tencent paid $448m for a minority share in Sogou, and the two entities have since been integrating their platforms, such as the recently launched dedicated search engine for official WeChat accounts. The main purpose of launching this is to differentiate Sogou search from other providers, but at the moment, there is no immediate plan regarding monetized traffic. Tencent has been closing down services that aren't generating enough revenue, with their Weibo service and search engine Soso being victims of this.
Sohu posted total revenues of $400m, up 18% YOY and 10% QOQ, and was in line with guidance. The news and video business segments made strong progress in mobile monetization, because the growing user base attracts more advertisers. Mobile revenues showed strong growth of 210% QOQ, partially due to the World Cup. Online video continues to grow, with the multi-screen strategy continuing to work well.
The brand advertising revenues in the second quarter were $133m, up 33% YOY and 20% QOQ. Including online video, Sohu ad revenues were $93m, up 38% year on year, with online video advertising revenues growing 85%. Online video mobile advertising revenues reached 20% of total revenues. Ad revenues for Focus.cn, the real estate channel, were $26m, whilst ad revenues for 17173 were $15m.
Sogou's revenue of $91m beat expectations, growing 82% YOY and 30% QOQ, as Sogou experiences continued search traffic growth because of the cooperation with Tencent. The number of search advertisers grew 23% YOY, whilst the average revenue per advertiser grew 63% YOY. Mobile search traffic grew 30% over the quarter, and the cost per click is growing much faster for mobile than PC, which is expected because of the Chinese technology industry's migration to mobile. The company acknowledged that Sogou has reached profitability much sooner than expected, due to two consecutive quarters of strong revenue.
Online game revenues were $154m, down 9% YOY and 6% QOQ, with Changyou posting Q2 revenue of $117m, down 3% YOY and 2% QOQ. However, Changyou had 252m average monthly users during Q2, which has almost tripled since a year ago. The decrease in revenue was because the higher spending players spent less on expansion packs that were released to decrease game difficulty. The release of expansion packs is a sign that a game's life is maturing, and Changyou is simply trying to extend the longevity of the game's revenue stream.
There has been a notable increase in content costs within the industry. In Q2, content costs were $40m, up 92% YOY and 55% QOQ. Last year, it was relatively easy to find the latest US TV shows across a wide range of online platforms in China. However, as of recently, there seems to have been a clear up of this content, as video platforms have been paying much higher amounts for their content.
Looking at the gross margins for each revenue stream, the only business segment that has seen rising margins is Sogou, which is likely due to the collaboration with Tencent. With other revenue streams seeing falling margins, it is difficult to be optimistic about Sohu's near term outlook. The rising cost structure for content, and the falling marginal revenue for TLBB has put pressure on the overall gross margin, and investors will want to see a halt to this decline.
For Q3, the company's guidance is for revenues to be between $427m and $442m, which would represent QOQ growth of between 6.7% and 10.5%, and YOY growth of between 15.9% and 20%. Sogou's revenues are expected to be between $100m and $105m, which implies 10%-15% QOQ and 76%-84% YOY growth. Online game revenues are forecasted to be between $158m and $163m, implying an increase of 3%-6% QOQ, and a YOY change of -2% to 1%.
As recently as last year, the latest US TV shows were easily available across a variety of video channels, but now these shows are restricted to just one channel. This is a major concern for Sohu, because the intense competition in the video content market is resulting in price escalations. High rating TV shows will generate high advertising revenues, so companies are willing to pay more and more for this content. At the moment, there are a lot of companies with large financial backing that are fighting for market share. It's an unfavourable cost structure for all firms in the market, but it is still a relatively new market in China, so once it matures, prices will cool. Sohu is expecting an uptick in the cost of content over the year, particularly for US and the increasingly popular Korean shows, although the company is confident that it is manageable, so the cost structure will remain similar. However, Sohu intends to increase its revenue scale to cover these rising costs, whether that is through targeted advertising or through premium content. For example, users of Youku Tudou have to pay to watch the top content in high definition. In addition, costs reductions can be made through better working relationships with telecom firms in order to reduce bandwidth costs.
The effects of this have already been seen in Sohu's advertising revenues. Guidance for third quarter advertising revenue is noticeably lower than last year, as video advertising revenues are expected to fall from 85% in Q2 to 40% in Q3. This is because Sohu had The Voice Of China 2 in 2013Q3, whilst they have lost the third season of the highly rated show to Tencent. The World Cup has mitigated some of the effect of losing The Voice Of China, but it was reasonably evenly spread between Q2 and Q3, so there's still a substantial drop in guidance. The advertising revenue growth rate in Sohu's real estate website Focus.cn is also expected to fall substantially from 80% in Q2 to 40% in Q3, as a result of China's slowing real estate market.
Sohu remains confident in Changyou's ability to maintain strong cash flow, as there will be new games released in the second half of the year, including 3 MMO games, two web games, and five to six mobile games. After the success of the TLBB game, it remains to be seen whether these new games can replace its revenue stream. We can see that the near term margin is under pressure due to increased costs for game development, but Changyou is confident that the games will return yield. Changyou has announced an investment in MoboTap, which created the Dolphin browser. This is intended to promote Changyou's products overseas. Dolphin is a free mobile browser for Android and iOS, and is one of the most popular third party mobile browsers in terms of downloads, where the vast majority of its users are based in the US and Europe. As Chinese online game developers are market leaders, they are aggressively exploring overseas markets for web games and mobile games.
However, the industry faces a major competitor in game consoles, as China has lifted a 14 year long ban on sales. This is a major competitor for desktop online games, because both are played at home, yet game consoles have a much larger international player network and the quality of the gameplay is much better. In fact, JD.com announced recently that it has begun taking exclusive pre-orders for the Microsoft Xbox One, which will be the first gaming console available for purchase through authorised sales channels in China since 2000. All game consoles have been unofficially available at electronic markets across the country.
The outlook for Sogou is a little brighter, as it continues to quickly expand its business with strong mobile growth. Mobile search revenues as a percentage of total search revenues is still in the low teens, which is poor compared to its rivals, who are seeing around 30%. PC revenues are also growing quickly, so by the end of the year, mobile search revenues will likely maintain the current proportion of total revenues. Sohu maintain that profitability isn't the number one priority at the moment. They are second in mobile search, albeit a distant second to Baidu, so gaining market share is currently more important. This drive for market share will be based on having the largest teen user base, and the Sogou search app is the second most installed app on mobile, behind WeChat. Also, being within the Tencent ecosystem gives Sogou potential to grow. However, in my view, rather than looking forward, the biggest competition will come from the likes of Qihoo who are also focusing on gaining mobile search market share.
One final point is that Tencent has recently been closing down unprofitable and unpopular businesses, such as its Weibo microblogging service and its search engine Soso. Tencent has already purchased a minority share in Sogou, and should collaboration between the two entities continue to be successful, then I would expect Tencent to pursue an outright acquisition or majority stake of Sogou.
Whilst Sogou is benefiting from its collaboration with Tencent, Sohu as a whole is currently facing a period of uncertainty. As advertising revenues become more and more important to the firm, video content is becoming more expensive and the market is facing strong competition. Likewise, advertising revenues from its real estate portals are suffering from weak real estate markets, which still show no sign of improvement.
Changyou is seeing its most popular game TLBB come to the end of its life, with the remaining revenue stream coming from casual, low paying players who only pay for expansion packs to reduce the difficulty of the game. The higher paying players will have since been spending their money elsewhere, which places pressure on Changyou to release a successful portfolio of new games in the second half of the year. With added pressure from the Xbox One console that will be released in China this year, it is likely that online game revenues will continue to become a smaller proportion of total revenues.
The integration of Sogou into the Tencent ecosystem is likely to be an important driver of revenue growth, as it gives Sogou access to a much larger user base. This will likely help Sogou stave off competition in the mobile search market from Qihoo, and solidify its position as the second largest search engine in China. However, should Sogou continue to be successful, I would expect Tencent to increase its stake in the search engine.
The third quarter earnings report will give investors their first insight into how Changyou's new games are performing. With intense price competition for TV content expected until at least next year, investors may be best waiting until uncertainties over different revenue streams become clearer.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = EXEL
Exelixis shares are still down 42% in the last six months, mainly due to news in March that a clinical trial would continue to final analysis, disappointing the Street.
Shares are on the mend, and have surpassed their 50-day moving average.
Exelixis currently has over a dozen clinical trials ongoing for its flagship product Cometriq, which, if the data are positive, could send shares sharply higher.
Revenues from Cometriq are up 65% year-over-year, but competition is fierce and the company has a significant cash burn rate, with financing to last until late 2015.
Given the number of catalysts upcoming and the potential market for Cometriq, Exelixis has the potential for massive rewards for the risk-tolerant investor.
As a PhD-level epidemiologist and market analyst, there is no sector more interesting to me than biotech. I have opined on several of these names in the past. Those of you who follow my work know that I search for companies that are near-completion of developing new drugs, or have only a few licensed for use. In this article, I would like to discuss a company that currently has revenues, but is conducting numerous trials that have the potential to bring in exponentially higher revenues in the years to come. While there are always risks involved in this sector, my review of the data and the potential for Exelixis (NASDAQ:EXEL) makes me believe that shares have strong potential upside from their current levels, if positive data is reported. The reverse is also true, should the data be poor. But, I think after the sell-off in shares that occurred this spring, Exelixis may be one of the best opportunities for trading and profiting from data releases into 2015, if you can stomach the risk.
Why do I see opportunity? Well Exelixis stock had performed well as we moved from 2013 into 2014. But, in March, Exelixis announced that the independent data monitoring committee overseeing its COMET-1 Phase 3 trial evaluating its leading drug Cometriq (also known as cabozantinib, or XL 184) for the treatment of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer recommended that the trial proceed to the planned ending and subsequent final analysis. I want to be clear. In most circumstances when a trial proceeds, that is, the data are not poor enough to cancel the trial, the news is usually welcomed, because it suggests that the safety and efficacy of the therapy is pretty darn good.
But here is the problem. There is competition. In fact, there are several drugs on the market for metastatic prostate cancer. Some competitors had their trials stopped early at the first review because the data were so strong (see below in the section "Risks"). I think back in March expectations had grown too high for Exelixis, and so when the trial was recommended to continue to its end point, the Street unfairly punished the stock, cutting the value of the company in half in one week, as shares plummeted from well over $6.00 to just $3.00.
Why did this happen? I think this occurred because investors began to believe that perhaps Cometriq did not reduce the risk of death, and thus may not have been better than standard therapy, and probably not as efficient as competitors' offerings. That, however, is just my opinion. What is reality is that the data was sufficient enough to have some effect, enough so that the data monitoring committee said "keep going." Further, the fact is that the stock got absolutely crushed on news that was not necessarily "bad". I think it was a situation, which often arises in the biotech sector, of shoot first and ask questions later. In this case, with the expectations the Street had, Exelixis shareholders got caught in the crossfire.
Sell-off overdone
I've followed biotech for some time, and I can tell you a small sell-off was probably warranted, given what occurred with competitors' trials, but a 50% plus sell-off, to me, rang of opportunity once shares started turning around. To be honest, the Street reacted as if the trial had been stopped early because of safety or tolerability concerns. But the trial is going to its final analysis. Now that the stock is starting to come back on and technically the stock is looking better (Figure 1), with the potential number of data events coming from its various trials coming up, I am comfortable recommending this stock at current levels, if you can tolerate risk. It has surpassed its 50-day moving average of $3.70 (as of August 18th, 2014). Now, it did dip all the way down to $3.02, but has now recovered to $4.20, so it has appreciated nearly 40%, but I think the positive momentum can continue because of upcoming catalysts, in conjunction with good data to-date.
The final COMET-1 trial data could be a game changer. There is risk. If the final data is poor, shares will get slammed. However, if the data is strong, expect shares to rise. While I am not privy to the data, of course, I predict that the final analysis will show that Cometriq demonstrates superior death risk reduction relative to the comparison therapies. My hunch is that the statistical power was not strong enough to detect differences at the interim trial. This is because there were not enough events to adequately detect smaller differences between treatment and control groups.
In order for the trial to have been stopped early, the data would have had to have been so one-sided that it was overwhelming. Since the trial in question is powered to detect a 25% reduction in the risk of death (that is, to detect statistical significance at a hazard ratio of 0.75) at the time of final analysis, which requires 578 outcome events, the interim analysis suggests that the data was not overwhelmingly positive. Further, it only had 387 events, which is only 66% of those needed to detect with 90% power the 25% reduction. However, if we look at what happened to the stock, you would have thought the trial was ceased early for negative reasons. But with another third of the data yet to be collected, the sample size for analyses will increase, and data analysts will have a better ability to determine whether the effect of Cometriq in the COMET-1 trial is significantly better than standard therapy alone.
When top line data is reported later this year, if the drug shows a statistically significant positive effect, the shares will move higher. If not, they will move lower. Given the prior trials on Cometriq, I am hard pressed to believe there will not be an effect. If the data are positive and Exelixis eventually receives FDA approval for this condition, just how much in sales are we talking about here? Well, I believe Cometriq could do half a billion in sales for metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer based on sales for competitor's products. Further, Exelixis has FDA approval for treatments, so it is already generating revenues. Cometriq was also approved to treat metastatic medullary thyroid cancer in the European Union. For this condition, Exelixis should see revenues in the coming quarters ramping up into 2015.
Cometriq is also being studied in many other trials. In fact, Exelixis has a dozen trials at various stages. Below is a very brief summary of other studies (with links to each provided in the "status" column). What is key here is that each trial and announcement regarding them serves as potential catalysts for the stock moving forward (Table 1). More specifically, significant catalysts will come in the form of data releases. Of course, these activities burn cash. Please see the quarterly results section below for more on the company's cash burn.
As we can clearly see, there are a number of trials being conducted at the present moment. It is important to note that although these trials serve as potential catalysts, with every data release comes the risk that the news is poor, thereby driving the stock price down. Given that Cometriq is already approved for other conditions, I think this helps quell some of the risk in the trials. Obviously, the trials in Phase 3 are the most costly and will serve as the largest catalysts, but positive news from some of the smaller trials can give the stock a boost. This happened most recently on May 7th, when Phase 1b trial data was reported for the BRIM-7 study. Essentially, the trial showed anti-tumor activity for the combination of cobimetinib and vemurafenib, and the stock got an 8% boost on the release. Expect the stock to move double digits when Phase 3 data is completed.
Ok, so far I have presented the potential for the stock to move higher on news-driven events. I have avoided being too focused on the data, as it is available in many of the links provided. For the most part, things have been pretty good. I reiterate the statistical power issue of the COMET-1 trial that I outlined above. Because the data were not overwhelmingly one-sided, there lacked power to say "Yes, stop the trial early." However, we know that the data was good enough for the data monitoring board to say "Keep going." I think a lot of investors are overlooking this fact and instead focusing on the disappointment that the data was not a landslide. As such, the study goes on. So is the company going to go broke with all of its research and development expenses? The company pumps so much into research and development, it made the top 50 list of most innovative companies based on its spending in research, revenues and return to shareholders.
In the company's most recent quarter, it saw revenues of $6.6 million derived solely from product revenue from Cometriq sales. In the comparable 2013 quarter, revenues were $11.9 million. On the surface, the sequential year-over-year performance looks bad. However, the 2013 quarter included a special $7.8 million license and contract revenue line from a deal with Bristol-Myers Squib (NYSE:BMY). Product sales were only $4.0 million. Thus, if we back out the special revenue line, we see revenues increased year-over-year by $2.6 million, or 65%. Of course, such collaboration and license revenues are always welcomed to generate more cash, but the organic growth is extremely promising.
Now what about cash burn? Many of the clinical trial-stage companies in this sector burn significant cash, and Exelixis is no exception. It spent $51.0 million in Q2 2014 on research and development, $16.5 million in administrative expenses and $11.7 in other expenses (related primarily to interest expense and other financing costs). Thus, the company spent approximately $79.2 million in the quarter on these major areas. Factoring in the $6.6 million in revenues and other smaller costs, the company reported a loss of $73.4 million, or $0.38 per share. Ouch. This compares to a loss of $62.2 million, or $0.34 per share, in 2013. That is indeed significant cash burn. Granted, the company is financing a dozen trials (Table 1) and is working to secure ongoing partnerships with Roche (OTCQX:RHHBY) and Genentech. But, the company cannot burn cash at this rate forever, and this is a real risk for further shareholder dilution in the future. Thankfully, the company still has $352 million in cash, so assuming future quarters have the same burn rate (they won't, it will vary), the company has enough cash for the next 5 quarters, or to late 2015. This assumption does not take into account future partnerships and/or advances in sales of Cometriq, which would obviously slow cash burn.
Competition is fierce in this sector. There are many prostate cancer drugs on the market, including ones from competitors who had their trials stopped early. One example is Zytiga that was made by Johnson & Johnson (NYSE:JNJ). Another was Xtandi from the company Medivation (NASDAQ:MDVN). According to this article: "Given the sales potential in the prostate cancer market (analyst estimates for peak sales of Cometriq have run as high as $1.7 billion assuming an approval), there is lots of opportunity here if Cometriq can make it past regulatory review" for all of these other conditions. I also just spent a ton of time going over cash burn. It is high. Another dilutive equity offering could be around the corner in late 2015, if Exelixis cannot slow the burn rate. I have no reason to expect it will slow significantly, given all of the trials. Now, one positive is that Exelixis is focusing on its flagship product and trying to gain approval for added conditions, which has two benefits. The first is FDA has historically, in my experience, been more likely to grant approvals for other conditions (provided data is sound) if the drug has demonstrated effectiveness and safety previously. It also helps Exelixis get around some of the earlier expenses of developmental, animal and some pharmacokinetic studies. Second, each time a new condition is granted, it extends the life of a patent, which can help the company compete with other drugmakers, and also makes the company a potential buyout candidate, because a larger company may want access to the drug.
It is quite interesting that what makes this stock attractive is exactly what is scary about the name. Namely, the number of trials it is conducting. If the data is sound, the stock could skyrocket. But if it comes up short, shares will get crushed. With cash being such an issue, Exelixis really does need some of the Phase 3 trials to have excellent outcomes. This could drive approvals, and of course, drive future revenues, offsetting the cash issue at least temporarily. The biggest catalyst will be the final Phase 3 COMET-1 data. The interim data led to a 50%-plus haircut. If it is good data, expect shares to move significantly higher, given the potential market for specialized prostate cancer treatments.
Will the upcoming catalysts be positive?
I think that there is a strong potential that data will be strong, given the last few releases. Even the COMET-1 interim data, which disappointed the Street because it was not "overwhelming," was still positive overall. Further, some of the smaller releases made, including the BRIM7 Phase 1b study I mentioned above, have been positive for the stock. Further, while I have outlined all of the trials underway, what I cannot predict without indication from management is any upcoming contracts or partnerships, which are usually always well-received. Just over a month ago, Roche announced that in patients with advanced melanoma, the addition of Exelxisis' developmental-stage product, Cobimetinib, to Roche's zelboraf significantly improved progression-free survival, and as such, a continued partnership is likely. However, in the clinical trial world, it's all about the data. Past performance cannot guarantee future success in other trials, but I will say that for the most part, Exelixis has had much success with its Cometriq trials, and as such, I am opining on the stock now because I think the stock will trade on the headlines.
Exelixis has excellent potential, but comes with high risk. There are multiple catalysts that could move share prices with extreme volatility, either higher or lower, depending on the outcome. I suspect that the data for the COMET-1 trial will be favorable. It is just that the study lacked power, barring an overwhelmingly positive response, that suggests the trial should have been stopped early in March. With the METEOR, EXAM and CELESTIAL Phase 3 trials underway, investors are in for real moves in Exelixis share prices in the coming quarters as data is released. Keep an eye on Cometriq revenues, as I expect them to grow. But be mindful of the cash burn. A dilutive offering has the potential to put a lid on share prices, regardless of where the stock was historically valued. Despite the risks, I think Exelixis is a great speculative play in the cancer treatment space.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = GSK
GSK is trading at nearly 15% discount to previous valuations.
Ebola vaccine entering Phase I clinical trials, potential 2015 release date.
The combination of a discount and a high-profile product could lead to future upside for buyers.
GlaxoSmithKline (NYSE:GSK) is a global pharmaceutical company known for producing a variety of drugs and consumer goods such as AquaFresh toothpaste, Tums gastrointestinal aid, and Amoxil (amoxicillin) antibiotic. The reasons for the drop in share price could be attributed to a couple of events. GSK Q2 2014 results of $9.3 billion revenues, although comparable to the $9.3 billion revenue Q1 2014 results, is a 7% decline from Q2 2013 results of $10.4 billion. A drop in quarterly year over revenues combined with an uncertain climate in Eastern Europe likely contributed to the drop in stock price.
GSK is not only affected by the economic climate, but is also affected by other world affairs. GSK is dealing with investigations in China over alleged bribery of doctors by GSK China to prescribe GSK products to patients. The Chinese government has cracked down on this behavior in an effort to reduce corruption within their nation, and the situation has caused some investors to sell shares of GSK. If the charges are found to be accurate, GSK would be discredited in China and lose an important part of its customer base in the second-largest economy in the world. Nearly 41% of the $26.5 billion in 2013 revenues came from Russia, China, Brazil, India, Australia, and Canada combined. Assuming sales were proportional to GDP, China would account for 48.9% of that 41% with the world's second-largest GDP of $9.2 trillion. Losing China as a customer base could mean a loss of up to 20% of GSK revenues, $5.3 billion from 2013 revenues. Were GSK to lose such a potentially large portion of revenues, GSK would have to fight for larger market share in the US economy of $17 trillion. However, the company claims to be taking the proper steps to investigate and punish if need be the individuals responsible. Potential investors should be wary of the situation, but the drop in price from the negative publicity could also be used as a good buying opportunity.
The recent decrease in stock price could be a short-term event, seeing as how the GSK trailing P/E is 12.9, compared to the average trailing P/E of 25 for the overall drug industry. Additionally GSK reported 40 new drug compounds in Phase II/III trial development, as well as a high profile Ebola virus vaccine potentially entering Phase I trials this year. Pharmaceutical revenues brought in 67% of GSK 2013 revenues, nearly $18 billion. Results from Eperzan (type 2 diabetes drug) and Tivicay (HIV infection drug) have already been approved of this year or received positive opinion for market authorization. Since launching, Tivicay has already garnered 11% of the $20 billion global HIV drug market. Similar success with Eperzan would help capture some of the nearly $60 billion global diabetes treatment market, with just 2% market share bringing in $1.2 billion. Capture of 5% and up of the global diabetes market could even bring in enough to offset the potential loss of the Chinese market. Current P/E ratios and robust product development might indicate that GSK will rebound in the near term, good for investors who purchased at a discount.
Investing in GSK could also be a poor decision. Failure of clinical trials to produce good results combined with another quarterly earnings decline could send the stock price even lower. Due to the recent decline in price, GSK gives a 5.5% dividend yield, which appears significantly higher than the 5% that GSK has yielded for the past 3 years. The management could potentially lower the payout, which might further decrease the share price. Additionally, GSK finished 2013 with $21.2 billion in debt, albeit a reduction from $23.5 billion in 2012. Potential investors should watch GSK over the next quarter, being wary of a Q3 earnings decline, and watch disclosed clinical trial information. A Q3 earnings beat will likely signal an improvement of the business and result in a share price rebound.
A long stock investor should view the reduction in GSK stock price as a temporary decline and subsequent buying opportunity. Product development appears to be leading to greater revenue growth, even enough to offset the potential loss of a large customer base. Furthermore, the reduction in debt points to an improving balance sheet. The discount plus a dividend that has held steady at 5% for the past 3 years, and if the dividend is not cut significantly, provides a good basis for both growth and continuing income.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = M
Up 27.7% over the past year, shares in Macy's are looking a bit expensive.
EPS growth in recent years has been fuelled by share buybacks and profit margin growth.
Balance sheet looks great: Macy's has over 8% of its current market cap in cash.
Shares in Macy's (NYSE:M) are up 27.7% over the past 12 months, outperforming the S&P500 which has grown by only 18.1%. Shares in the company are now trading at $57.45, which is a bit lower than the 52 week high of $61.26.
The company has been able to grow its earnings per share at a high pace in recent years. This means, despite the amazing growth in price per share in recent years, the company is still trading at a relatively low p/e ratio of 14.3 times trailing twelve month earnings.The 5 year average p/e ratio stands at 10.8. For the current fiscal year, which ends in January 2015, analysts expect the company to have earnings per share of $4.44, putting the forward p/e ratio at only 12.9. For the next fiscal year, EPS is expected to grow by another 13.1%, to reach $5.02. In its recently released results for the 2nd quarter of the current fiscal year, the company stated EPS had reached $0.80, an increase of 11% to last year's $0.72. This was below analyst expectations of $0.86 and led to a drop from the 52 week high.
The number of stores has been stable in recent years, which means the only way to grow revenues is by increasing the sales per store. Over the past 5 years, Macy's average revenue growth was 2.33%. For the current fiscal year, analysts expect the company to have $28.5 billion in revenues, an increase of 2.0% to last year's $27.9 billion. The forward price to sales ratio stands at 0.7, which is quite high considering the fact Macy's has traded at an average p/s ratio of 0.5 over the past 5 years. In recent years, Macy's has been able to grow its profit margin at a decent pace, which is part of the reason EPS growth has been so high.
In recent years, Macy's has been buying back large amounts of its own stock. Buying back shares is a great way of returning capital to shareholders, as a lower number of shares outstanding leads to higher earnings per share. Over the past 12 months, Macy's has spent $1.45 billion on share repurchases.
Macy's also returns a lot of capital to its shareholders in the form of dividends. Over the past 5 years, the company has increased its dividend by an average of 12.5% per year. The dividend currently stands at $0.31 per quarter, yielding 2.18% a year at the current price per share. The payout ratio over the past 12 months was only 25.9%, leaving plenty of room for further dividend growth.
Macy's balance sheet looks very good, with over $1.6 billion in cash and short term investments. This means Macy's has over 8% of its current market cap in cash. The current ratio, which measures short term financial health, stands at 1.52, which is very good. The long term debt is quite high, at $7.2 billion, but it has been going down in recent years.
Shares in Macy's have gone up at a high pace over the past 12 months and despite the recent dip, the company is still trading at a significant premium to its 5 year average p/e and p/s ratios. The amazing growth in EPS over the past 5 years has been fuelled by both stock buybacks and a growing profit margin. However, revenue growth is very low, and profit margin expansion can't continue forever. The company has a very healthy balance sheet, allowing for more share repurchases in the future. The valuation multiples for Macy are a bit too high for me at the moment, but I will be buying if and when the company drops back to the low 50's.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = AVGO
Avago's stock still has plenty of room to move up.
Avago has compelling valuation metrics and very strong earnings growth prospects.
Avago's stock is ranked first among all S&P 500 tech stocks, according to Portfolio123's "All-Stars: O'Neil" powerful ranking system.
Avago Technologies' (NASDAQ:AVGO) stock has surged strongly since mid-2013. In fact, its relative strength index (RSI) technical indicator is indicating almost overbought conditions. Since May 1, 2013, AVGO's stock has gained an astounding 139%. Nevertheless, in my opinion, AVGO's stock still has plenty of room to move up, because it has compelling valuation metrics and very strong earnings growth prospects. Furthermore, Avago has no debt at all, and it is generating strong cash flows that enables the company to make important acquisitions.
Avago Technologies is a leading designer, developer and global supplier of a broad range of analog, digital, mixed signal and optoelectronics components and subsystems, with a focus on III-V compound semiconductor design and processing. The company was founded in 2005, and is based in Singapore.
Avago's valuation metrics are excellent; the company has no debt at all, its forward P/E is low at 14.19, and the average annual earnings growth estimates for the next five years is extremely high at 27.84%. Moreover, Avago's PEG ratio of 0.67 is exceptionally low. The PEG Ratio - price/earnings-to-growth ratio - is a widely used indicator of a stock's potential value. It is favored by many investors over the P/E ratio because it also accounts for growth. A lower PEG means that the stock is more undervalued.
Latest-Quarter Results
On May 29, Avago reported its second-quarter fiscal year 2014 financial results, which beat EPS expectations by $0.09 (11.80%), and beat the Street's estimates on revenues.
Net revenue was $701 million, a decrease of one percent compared with the previous quarter, and an increase of 25 percent from the same quarter last year.
Net income (Non-GAAP) was $223 million, or $0.85 per diluted share. This compares with net income of $217 million, or $0.84 per diluted share last quarter, and net income of $153 million, or $0.61 per diluted share, in the same quarter last year.
In the report, Hock Tan, president and CEO of Avago Technologies, said:
In the second fiscal quarter of the year, our wireless business came in significantly above our expectations due to strong product ramps for our FBAR-related products into multiple Asian Smartphone OEMs. We also saw a resurgence in Industrial re-sales through our distributors, especially in Europe and Japan. The third quarter marks a transformative event in Avago's history as we completed the acquisition of LSI, creating a substantially larger company with a much more diversified and balanced mix of end markets.
Next-Quarter Results
Avago will report its third-quarter fiscal year 2014 financial results on August 28. AVGO is expected to post a profit of $1.04 a share, a 40.5% rise from the company's actual earnings for the same quarter a year ago.
Avago has been paying uninterrupted dividends since December 2010. The forward annual dividend yield is at 1.55%, and the payout ratio is at 39.5%.
Avago has raised its dividend payment every quarter. Since the company generates lots of cash, has no debt and the payout ratio is low, there is a good chance that the company will continue to raise its dividend payment.
Avago has the highest earnings growth prospects among the stocks in the group, and the second-highest dividend yield. However, its EV/EBITDA ratio at 20.08 is higher than those of its competitors.
Avago's Margins and Return on Capital parameters have been much better than its industry median, its sector median and the S&P 500 median, as shown in the tables below.
According to Portfolio123's "All-Stars: O'Neil" powerful ranking system, AVGO's stock is ranked first among all S&P 500 tech stocks. The ranking system is based on investing principles of the well-known investor William O'Neil. The "All-Stars: O'Neil" ranking system is quite complex, and it is taking into account many factors like; EPS Growth, Sales Growth, Industry Growth, Market Conditions and Margins, as shown in the Portfolio123's chart below.
The AVGO stock price is 4.44% above its 20-day simple moving average, 3.86% above its 50-day simple moving average and 23.51% above its 200-day simple moving average. That indicates a strong uptrend.
The weekly MACD histogram, a particularly valuable indicator by technicians, is negative at -0.54 and ascending, which is a neutral signal (a rising MACD histogram that is crossing the zero line from below is considered an extremely bullish signal). The RSI oscillator is at 67.92, approaching overbought conditions.
Many analysts are covering the stock, and most of them recommend it. Among the twenty-four analysts, five rate it as a Strong Buy, fourteen rate it as a Buy, and five rate it as a Hold.
TipRanks is a website that ranks experts (analysts and bloggers) according to their performance. According to TipRanks, among the analysts covering AVGO stock, there are eleven analysts who have the four or five-star rating, nine of them recommend the stock and the other two top analysts rate it as a Hold.
On August 13, Avago and Intel announced the signing of a definitive agreement for Intel to acquire LSI's Axxia Networking Business and related assets for $650 million in cash. The transaction, which has been approved by the boards of directors of both Avago and Intel, is expected to close in the fourth calendar quarter of 2014 upon satisfaction of government approvals and customary closing conditions. LSI's Axxia Networking Business is being divested from Avago following the recent completion of Avago's acquisition of LSI. The Axxia Networking Business generated revenues of $113 million in calendar 2013, and employs approximately 650 people.
On June 23, Avago and PLX Technology, Inc. (NASDAQ:PLXT) announced that they have entered into a definitive agreement under which Avago will acquire PLX, a leader in PCI Express silicon and software connectivity solutions, in an all-cash transaction valued at approximately $309 million, or $293 million net of cash and debt acquired. Under the terms of the agreement, which was approved by the boards of directors of both companies, a subsidiary of Avago will commence a tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of PLX common stock for $6.50 per share in cash. Avago expects to fund the transaction with cash available on its balance sheet. On August 12, Avago announced that it has completed the tender offer.
On May 6, Avago and LSI Corporation announced that Avago has completed its acquisition of LSI Corporation for $11.15 per share in an all-cash transaction valued at approximately $6.6 billion. The acquisition creates a highly diversified semiconductor market leader with approximately $5 billion in projected annual revenues.
Avago's strong balance sheet (current ratio at 4.90, and quick ratio at 4.20) enabled the company to make important acquisitions. I consider the acquisition of LSI very positive for Avago, since the two companies offer complementary products. Avago believes that the acquisition of LSI positions it as a leader in the enterprise storage market. The acquisition also expands Avago's product offerings and brings system-level expertise in its wired infrastructure market. According to Avago, with increased scale and a diversified product portfolio across multiple attractive end-markets, the combined company is strongly positioned to capitalize on the growing opportunities created by the rapid growth in data center IP and mobile data traffic.
Avago has been able to show an earnings per share surprise in each one of the last four quarters, as shown in the table below.
In my opinion, the fact that the company succeeds to beat analyst expectations quarter after quarter demonstrates the strength of its business, and there is a good chance that Avago will continue to surprise by reporting better-than-estimated results also in the future.
AVGO's stock started its rally in May 2013, and continued to performed very well in 2014. Since the start of the year, AVGO's stock has gained 41.4%, while the S&P 500 index has risen 5.8% and the Nasdaq Composite Index has increased 6.9%. Moreover, since the beginning of 2013, AVGO's stock has recorded an astounding gain of 136.3%, while the S&P 500 index has increased 37.1% and the Nasdaq Composite Index has risen 47.9%. Nevertheless, considering its excellent valuation metrics and strong earnings growth prospects, the stock, in my opinion, has plenty of room to move up.
Avago has excellent valuation metrics and very strong earnings growth prospects; its PEG ratio is very low at 0.67. Moreover, AVGO's stock is ranked first among all S&P 500 tech stocks, according to Portfolio123's "All-Stars: O'Neil" powerful ranking system. Furthermore, Avago has no debt at all, and it is generating strong cash flows that enables the company to make important acquisitions.
All these factors bring me to the conclusion that AVGO stock is a smart long-term investment. Furthermore, the growing dividend represents a gratifying income.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = LGF
Over the weekend, "The Expendables 3" reported poor box office results, coming in behind two incumbent films and another new release.
Despite the fact that its predecessor films have been a success, this performance by the third film in the trilogy suggests that "The Expendables" may have run its course.
Moving forward, it will be interesting to see what the fallout is from these results, but with a dour opening weekend, investors shouldn't expect much.
Despite news that its latest feature, The Expendables 3, bombed in the box office over the Aug. 15-17 weekend, shares of Lions Gate Entertainment (NYSE:LGF) inched up for the trading day on Aug. 18. Not only did the film report numbers that were below incumbents like Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and Guardians of the Galaxy, made by Viacom (NASDAQ:VIA)-owned Paramount Pictures and The Walt Disney Company (NYSE:DIS), respectively, as well as Let's Be Cops, another newcomer from Twenty-First Century Fox (NASDAQ:FOXA), but the film failed to achieve the opening weekend management anticipated.
For the weekend, management at Lions Gate expected The Expendables 3 to rake in ticket sales totaling $20 million to $30 million in domestic markets. Much to their chagrin, however, the film only reported a take of $16.2 million domestically and $36.7 million worldwide. This is far worse than its predecessor films, but seems to be following a trend. During its opening weekend in 2010, The Expendables reported receipts of $34.8 million while its 2012 sequel garnered $28.8 million in the U.S.
Interestingly, despite its lower opening weekend, The Expendables 2 actually saw its total box office sales come in higher than the first of the trilogy, with receipts totaling $312 million. This represents a 16% jump over the $268.3 million seen by its predecessor and gives the company and its shareholders some hope that the third film will see a resurgence in the weeks to come.
If, however, box office results continue to depress, Lions Gate could be in a world of hurt. With an estimated budget of around $100 million, which is in line with the second movie's budget and higher than the $82 million the first film of the series cost, a writedown from the film could be painful for the business.
Ahead of Lions Gate's movie for the weekend was Guardians of the Galaxy, a film by Disney that brought in $25.1 million into the domestic box office during the weekend. In the more than two-week period that the film's been out, it's generated $222.7 million in the U.S. and $419.1 million worldwide. Not bad for a film with a $170 million budget. In first place, however, was Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, with box office receipts of $28.5 million. This brings total U.S. and worldwide box office results to $117.8 million and $185.3 million, respectively.
Finally, we arrive at Let's Be Cops, a comedy released by 20th Century Fox, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Twenty-First Century Fox. For the weekend, the film brought in sales of $17.8 million, bringing total U.S. and worldwide box office sales since its debut less than a week ago to $26.2 million and $26.9 million, respectively. Although this isn't a huge release for the film, the fact that it only cost around $17 million to make likely means Twenty-First Century Fox will make a nice chunk of change off it.
Over the past weekend, sales of The Expendables 3 came in not just worse than expected, but also below two incumbent films and another new release. With its most recent predecessor, it's been shown that a dour opening weekend isn't the end of the world, but with sales coming in far lower than expected and results worse than its predecessor films, investors shouldn't be terribly surprised if Lions Gate ends up reporting low profits from it or, possibly, an impairment.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = MSFT
Microsoft is shifting its legacy businesses onto the cloud.
Satya Nadella's vision is perfect for this change.
The company continues to grow earnings and revenues at a good clip.
Microsoft is extremely shareholder friendly with a fortress-like balance sheet.
The company is entering its fiscal year 2015 focused with a new vision.
Under CEO Satya Nadella, Microsoft (NASDAQ: MSFT) is shifting towards a "mobile first, cloud first" mentality, and is changing many aspects of its business model to facilitate this paradigm shift. Digging through its most recent conference call transcript unveils some of Nadella's vision for the future.
Besides its commercial cloud annual revenue run rate doubling last quarter, the company also saw expanded gross margins related to its cloud business. Commercial cloud revenue grew 147% during the last quarter, driven primarily by Office 365 and Azure. There's also a new vision for Windows.
Nadella stated during the conference call that:
"In the year ahead, we are investing in ways that will ensure our device OS and first party hardware aligned to our core. We will streamline the next version of Windows from three operating systems into one single converged operating system for screens of all sizes."
He elaborated further during the Q&A session, explaining that:
"The reality is that we actually did not have one Windows; we had multiple Windows operating systems inside of Microsoft. We had one for phone, one for tablets and PCs, one for Xbox, one for even embedded. So we had many, many of these efforts. So now we have one team with the layered architecture that enables us to in fact one for developers bring that collective opportunity with one store, one commerce system, one discoverability mechanism. It also allows us to scale the UI across all screen sizes; it allows us to create this notion of universal Windows apps and being coherent there."
This could be a very smart move over the long term, because it not only integrates multiple operating systems into one, but universal Windows apps also give developers more incentives to build with Microsoft.
Expanding coverage and offering developer incentives
Universal apps "aggregate" all of Microsoft's Windows volume. This means that apps that can be used both on a desktop and on mobile allow developers access to "300 plus million units as opposed to just our 4% share of mobile in the U.S. or 10% in some country." This could finally speed up adoption of Windows Phone as it becomes fully integrated with the rest of Windows.
Microsoft has also made other changes such as offering office apps for iPad and making Windows licenses free for any device under 9". Nadella explained that the company could still monetize the seemingly "free" OS on the back-end with Bing integration as well as other attached services.
Speaking of the money-pit that is Bing, the company actually expects it to be profitable on a stand-alone basis in fiscal 2016. During 4Q, Bing saw an increase in both usage and monetization, along with a 19% share of U.S. search queries.
Nadella also indicated that Microsoft would continue to bet on the cloud, and even the Internet of Things. The company wants to expand its data center footprint for fiscal 2015, as well as launch new high value, high level services such as Azure machine learning.
For its full 2014 fiscal year, Azure grew rapidly, with storage doubling and compute tripling, according to CFO Amy Hood. She also said that:
over 50% of our Azure customers are now also using higher value services like the Enterprise Mobility Suite, which are seeing strong adoption since the May launch. We're pleased that our customers are enthusiastically embracing Office 365, Azure, CRM Online and our other cloud services, especially considering it's still early in the cloud transition.
Office 365 saw 1 million new subscribers during the quarter, which ended with 5.6 million users overall. Microsoft's CFO also indicated that this business was in a "growth phase" during the Q&A session, which further reinforces the fact that the company has been relatively successful in transitioning its legacy business into the cloud so that it can continue to thrive going forward.
Microsoft has many other cloud-related services up its sleeve both now and going forward.
OneDrive: An app that allows users to access files and data from any device at anytime through cloud storage.
Cortana, a Siri-like search device, and Delve, a smart search tool that utilizes machine learning to intelligently show users documents and messages.
Azure Intelligence Systems Service: Allows users to converge data from a variety of sources. Devices and sensors can connect through Azure to capture and utilize "big data".
New services for legacy products: An example of this is Power BI (business intelligence) for Excel and Office 365, which allows users to capture and analyze live data taken everywhere from the public web to inside a private company, and then put into a report. This facilitates the integration of legacy Office products with cloud computing. It also helps justify the move of these products to a lucrative subscription-based model.
Skype Translator: a real-time translation tool that helps remove language barriers
Galileo: a mini-Windows device for developers to use on devices related to the IoT. May further expand Microsoft's reach into Internet-connected devices over Azure.
Microsoft's CFO has been very good about cutting operating expenses and stated that she would continue to do so going forward, but also said that CapEx related to cloud and also investments in R&D would continue to increase. This is an encouraging sign for the company going forward as long as it is successful in its new strategy. Fiscal 2015 will be a pivotal year for the company.
Microsoft posted an impressive $23 billion in revenues in 4Q 2014, with $2 billion from its newly acquired Phone Hardware Segment. Excluding the revenues related to the Nokia (NYSE: NOK) acquisition, revenues still increased by 10%, which exceeded even the high-end of the company's previous guidance.
The company missed earnings estimates when it reported $0.55 a share, but would have looked much better without the one-time effect of the Nokia acquisition. Earnings-per-share before the impact of the acquisition grew 12% to $0.66 a share, with gross margin jumping 7%.
The company has an exceptional balance sheet as well:
As can be seen, the company has more cash than total liabilities. Microsoft is also extremely shareholder friendly, returning $15.7 billion in fiscal 2014 with dividends and buybacks-- an increase of 28% year-over-year.
Microsoft's last dividend increase was around 22% alone. Shares currently yield roughly 2.5% now, but this yield should jump when it announces its next annual dividend increase. If history is any indication, this will occur some time next month.
The company currently trades at almost 17 times trailing earnings and roughly 14 times forward earnings (fiscal 2016). Microsoft will likely report its first quarter earnings for fiscal 2015 sometime near the end of October.
Below I have also added a supplementary discounted cash flow analysis utilizing a Levered Returns interactive model.
I estimate a slightly optimistic, but achievable, 8% growth in sales over the next 3 years. Feel free to input your own growth rate to come up with your own price target.
Microsoft has begun its fiscal year 2015 with a lot of things on its plate. It's carefully and strategically steering many of its legacy products into the cloud, which also transitions them from stand-alone products to cloud-connected, subscription-based models. This should allow the company to continue to milk its current cash cows, which will now provide it with recurring revenue streams.
The company also has a pristine balance sheet and is one of the most shareholder-friendly mega-caps you will find. Shares are more expensive than they have been over the last three years, but are also cheaper than the market. Will the "new" Microsoft's higher multiple be sustainable?
I suspect that Satya Nadella and the rest of management's success in executing their long-term vision for the company will largely determine this. This year (fiscal 2015) should be a major first indicator of their success or lack thereof. So far as a shareholder, I am impressed, especially with the company's CFO Amy Hood who has been cutting operating expenses while the company continues to grow earnings and revenues.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = EBAY
eBay, the world’s largest online marketplace has a growing base of over 150 million active accounts. The E-commerce giant leads the evolution of commerce as a long-term player.
Its strength can be seen in the healthy growth of its key matrices. Its volumes are increasing and it is well positioned to capture the transition to m-commerce.
eBay is focusing on increasing penetration in the emerging markets and recently launched a website for Latin America. Census target price and relative valuation show an upward potential.
eBay (NASDAQ:EBAY) is one of the leading e-commerce businesses and is at the forefront of the rapidly growing e-commerce and m-commerce platforms. Its ability to partner with traditional retailers and merchants is superb. EBAY is capitalizing on the growing trend of shifting from brick-and-mortar retailers to the e-commerce platform. With over 150 million active accounts, EBAY is the world's largest online marketplace. With its leading payment platform, PayPal, EBAY has strong long-term prospects as the global commerce evolves.
Some Challenges on a Long Successful Journey
EBAY experienced a lower growth figure in same-store-growth in the month of July and its growth rate decreased to 9.7% compared to June's same-store sales growth of 12.3%. Auction decreased by 8% in the month. As the transition to e-commerce proceeds, the industry is becoming increasingly competitive and EBAY has to strengthen its competitive position. The fall in matrices was partially due to the data breach in May but EBAY is expected to use it strengths to cope with these bumps along the long road to success.
EBAY is Increasing its Penetration
EBAY is expanding its target market at a rapid pace and is successfully increasing its commerce volumes. In the 2nd quarter of 2014, EBAY managed to increase its enabled commerce volume (ECV) to a record level of 61,639 reflecting a growth of 26% YOY. As mobile commerce's penetration increases, mobile ECV's percentage of total ECV also increases. During the 2nd quarter of 2013, 15% of the ECV was mobile ECV. In the 2nd quarter of this year (2014), mobile commerce's share has increased to 20%. EBAY is in a strong position to capture the exploding growth in the m-commerce platform as this transition continues.
EBAY managed to increase cross-border trade by 26% in the 2nd quarter of this year. EBAY is at an important position to fuel international trade as the world becomes a global village. This important position is expected to give EBAY long-term growth in its top and bottom lines in the coming years as economies become more integrated over time.
EBAY is aggressively increasing the strength and penetration of PayPal to realize the full potential of this electronic payment platform. EBAY is launching PayPal in 10 new countries.
On the mobile-commerce front, EBAY won another 6.6 million new buyers and accounts. EBAY's success with the mobile platform is evident in the fact that about 260 million eBay Inc. apps have been downloaded so far.
Positive Payment Operating Matrices
Payment operating matrices show that EBAY is continuing its growth momentum in key matrices. Global active accounts have grown by a healthy 15%. Net number of payments increased 21% YOY. eBay's global penetration rate increased to 79.8%. Transaction margins have also increased in the quarter compared to previous quarters. These matrices provide evidence of continued efficient operations of the expanding payment business.
Expanding in the Emerging Market of Latin America
EBAY is focusing on capitalizing on the growth potential of emerging markets. EBAY's launch of the Spanish and Portuguese versions of its popular website is a very important strategic move that will enable EBAY to exploit the large growth potential in emerging Latin American economies. EBAY has also acquired machine translation company AppTek to help the company with its global expansion. EBAY's Spanish and Portuguese websites are expected to generate more business since they include the important features such as availability of local deals and promotions, and the use of local currency instead of US dollars. Presently, Latin America has a rapidly growing customer base of over 2 million customers.
Growth in Top and Bottom Lines
EBAY has managed to grow its top line by a healthy double-digit growth rate. The report from its most recently ended quarter show that its top line grew by 13% compared to the same quarter last year. The top line's growth momentum continues.
EBAY was not able to maintain its previous double-digit EPS growth. EPS grew by 9% YOY in the latest reported quarter. The operating margin has also declined over the past two quarters but it is still a healthy double-digit figure of 24.4%. EBAY needs to regain the double-digit EPS growth rate. Through its proactive strategy and aggressive expansion to capitalize on e-commerce growth, EBAY is likely to continue to experience significant growth in its top and bottom lines in the coming years.
Providing Shareholder Returns through Share Repurchases
EBAY rewards its shareholders through share repurchases. During the last quarter, EBAY repurchased 32.4 million shares using free cash flow of $1.7 billion. There is still $2.2 billion left to be repurchased in the coming quarters. EBAY utilized $1.2 billion of commercial paper to fund the stock buyback and this will help EBAY make its returns and optimize its capital structure.
Attractive Upside Potential at Current Price
Analyses of average target price provided by 36 brokers show that EBAY's stock is undervalued and that upward potential exists. The mean target price is $59.50 with an upward potential of about 12% at the current price of nearly $53. The median target is $60 with an upward potential of 13%. The highest target price is $66 with an upward potential of about 25%. The most conservative target price is $50 expecting a downside of about 6%. The target price estimates show that EBAY is an attractive stock at its current price level.
Multiples Show a Relative Undervaluation
The price/earnings ratio shows that EBAY is undervalued compared to the sector but overvalued compared to the industry and S&P 500. The PEG ratio incorporates the expected future growth in the price/earnings ratio in the relative valuation analysis. EBAY has a PEG ratio of 1.42 meaning it is undervalued compared to the sector and S&P 500. This undervaluation complements the average target price analysis and shows that EBAY is an attractive investment at its current price.
eBay is poised to benefit from the transformation of global commerce. Its key matrices show continued efficient operations. eBay's trade volumes for overseas transactions increased and show that eBay will benefit from the continued integration of economies and growth of global trade. Its penetration into the emerging markets of Latin America will provide it with long-term growth prospects. Consensus target price estimate and multiple valuations show eBay to be an attractive investment at its current price level.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = YUM
Food safety issues will hit China division sales.
Taco Bell continues to market well against rivals and expand menu offerings.
Taco Bell same store sales among best for company.
Strength at Taco Bell leading to increased franchising power of brand.
Yum! Brands (NYSE:YUM) continues to be in the news for its China food safety issues. While these issues will no doubt have an impact on the China division's sales, the rest of the company is showing signs of strength. Taco Bell continues to be the gem in the portfolio and along with expanding store counts can carry the company in the face of investor worry.
Taco Bell launched its Dollar Cravings menu on Monday in a strong marketing program that takes on McDonald's and other rivals. McDonald's made big headlines last year when after ten years it decided to shift away from its $1 menu offerings. After pressure from franchisees, McDonald's changed its menu to the Dollar Menu & More, offering items at $1, $2 and $5 price points.
Taco Bell's Dollar Cravings menu has 11 items that are all $1. This includes beef and chicken options and features popular items like burritos, tostada, nachos, roll-ups, and empanadas. The goal of the new menu is to gain some traffic back from the key 18-24 age group, who has likely shifted to trendier and healthier options like Chipotle Mexican Grill and Qdoba.
Taco Bell continues to show strength for Yum! Brands with its Cantina menu, dollar menu offerings, and expansion into breakfast. All of these items are also helping boost the number of franchised locations opening. The Cantina menu was updated in July to the newly named Cantina Power, with new offerings in the breakfast category and items like greek yogurt being added.
Taco Bell posted a 3% increase in second quarter sales, led by same store sales growth of 2%. This was the biggest increase of the three United States brands for same store sales growth. Taco Bell continues its trend of same store sales growth. Thirty Taco Bells were opened during the second quarter, with 29 of the total being franchised locations.
Taco Bell continues to be a gem in the portfolio, as it made up 21% of Yum! Brands operating profit in fiscal 2013. The strength of the brand is leading to an increase in franchisor demand, which is also helping the company sell some of its company owned locations to franchisees. A boost to traffic from Millenials from the new dollar menu could improve same store sales and once again increase the overall value of owning a Taco Bell chain.
Yum! Brands second quarter sales increased 6% and overall margins improved. China sales were up 21% on strong unit growth and a 15% improvement in same store sales. A total of 104 stores were added in China during the second quarter, bringing the overall count to 6387 at the end of the quarter.
The scandal involving OSI Group has forced all KFC and Pizza Hut locations in China to stop selling meat. OSI also supplies to rivals like McDonald's and Burger King. The company has provided meat to McDonald's since 1992 and Yum! Brands since 2008. This will have a big impact on Yum! Brands China division in the third and fourth quarter and will be the story to watch. Analysts may come in with new price targets and investors may sell off on third quarter weakness or comments made by management. A decline in shares after third quarter earnings could provide a great entry point for long term investors.
Analysts see Yum! Brands growing earnings per share to $3.56 for the full fiscal year. That would be a 20% improvement on last year's $2.97. For fiscal 2015, analysts see earnings jumping to $4.09 per share. This marks expected growth of 15%. The company's goal is 25% earnings per share growth from 2015 on, so there is the possibility of a strong beat on the $4.09 figure, depending on how long the China issues last.
Shares of Yum! Brands trade around $72 a share, well below the 52 week high of $83.58. Shares also yield 2.1% at current share prices, offering investors a small return while waiting for the turnaround. Yum! Brands survived a similar scare years ago with chicken that was boosted with injections.
Yum! Brands is one of the largest quick service restaurant companies in the world. Don't let the China worries keep you from investing in this great company. Thousands of restaurants are being added in emerging markets every year. The company is also seeing strength in the United States despite an industry decline.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = CSCO
After the latest drop in its stock price, now is an excellent opportunity for long-term investment in Cisco's stock at a cheap price.
Cisco's stock is ranked second among all S&P 500 tech stocks, according to Portfolio123's "All-Stars: Greenblatt" powerful ranking system.
Cisco is generating strong free cash flows, and returns value to its shareholders by stock buybacks and increasing dividend payments.
After reporting better-than-expected results on August 13, Cisco Systems' (NASDAQ:CSCO) stock dropped 2.62% the next trading day in reaction to the company's announcement that it will lay off up to 6,000 workers, or 8 percent of its workforce. In my opinion, the planned layoffs should not have an adverse effect on Cisco's stock price, since the company continues to create new jobs in growing areas. I find CSCO's stock an excellent combination of value and dividend growth stock. Cisco has very good valuation metrics and solid earnings growth prospects. In addition, Cisco achieved a leading position in Gartner's Leaders Quadrant in the Wired and Wireless LAN Access Infrastructure research for the third consecutive year. Furthermore, the company continued to deliver large sums of cash back to shareholders by stock buybacks and growing dividend payments.
Cisco is the world's largest supplier of high-performance computer networking systems. The company was founded in 1984, and is headquartered in San Jose, California.
The table below presents the valuation metrics of CSCO, and the data were taken from Yahoo Finance and finviz.com.
Cisco's valuation metrics are very good. The trailing P/E is at 16.48, the forward P/E is very low at 10.71, and the Enterprise Value/EBITDA ratio is also very low at 7.75.
On August 13, Cisco reported its fourth-quarter and fiscal year 2014 financial results, which beat EPS expectations by $0.02 (3.80%) and beat the Street's estimates on revenues.
Net income in the fourth quarter fell to $2.25 billion, or 43 cents a share, from $2.27 billion, or 42 cents, a year earlier. Revenue in the period that ended July 26 was $12.4 billion, flat year-over-year.
Cash flows from operations were $3.6 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, compared with $3.2 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2014 and compared with $4.0 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. Cash flows from operations were $12.3 billion for fiscal 2014, compared with $12.9 billion for fiscal 2013.
We are executing well in a tough environment and delivered our best non-GAAP earnings per share quarter in our history. I'm pleased with how we are transforming our company over the past several years and that journey continues. We are focused on growth, innovation and talent, especially in the areas of security, data center, software, cloud and internet of everything. Our strategy is sound, our financials are strong, and our market leadership is secure. We have the team in place to deliver and are uniquely positioned to help our customers solve their biggest business problems.
Cisco has been paying uninterrupted dividends since 2011. The forward annual dividend yield is pretty high at 3.11%, and the payout ratio is at 45.9%. The annual rate of dividend growth over the past three years was very high at 81.7%.
Since the company generates lots of cash and the payout ratio is not excessive, there is a good chance that the company will continue to raise its dividend payment.
Cisco returned a record $13.3 billion to shareholders this fiscal year through share buybacks and dividends. In the last quarterly report, Frank Calderoni, Cisco executive vice president and chief financial officer, stated:
We remain committed to delivering value to our shareholders through our capital allocation strategy and continued investment in our long-term growth opportunities.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014:
Cisco paid a cash dividend of $0.19 per common share, or $974 million.
Cisco repurchased approximately 61 million shares of common stock under the stock repurchase program at an average price of $25.11 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $1.5 billion.
Cisco repurchased approximately 420 million shares of common stock under the stock repurchase program at an average price of $22.71 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $9.5 billion.
As of July 26, 2014, Cisco had repurchased and retired 4.3 billion shares of Cisco common stock at an average price of $20.63 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $88.4 billion since the inception of the stock repurchase program. The remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases under this program is approximately $8.6 billion, with no termination date.
A comparison of key fundamental data between Cisco and its main competitors is shown in the table below.
Cisco has the highest operating margin among the stocks in the group. It has also the highest dividend yield and the second-lowest PEG ratio.
Cisco margins' parameters have been much better than its industry median, its sector median, and the S&P 500 median, as shown in the table below.
According to Portfolio123's "All-Stars: Greenblatt" powerful ranking system, CSCO's stock is ranked second among all S&P 500 tech stocks - only CA Technologies (NASDAQ:CA) is ranked higher. The "All-Stars: Greenblatt" ranking system is taking into account just two factors - Return on Capital and Earnings Yield (E/P) in equal proportions. Back-testing has proved that this ranking system is one of the best free available ranking methods. I recommend investors read Joel Greenblatt's book "The Little Book That Beats the Market", where he thoroughly explains his system.
CSCO stock price is 3.77% below its 20-day simple moving average, 2.59% below its 50-day simple moving average, and 7.03% above its 200-day simple moving average. That indicates a short-term and a mid-term downtrend, and a long-term uptrend.
The weekly MACD histogram, a particularly valuable indicator by technicians, is negative at -0.02 and descending, which is a bearish signal (a rising MACD histogram that is crossing the zero line from below is considered an extremely bullish signal). The RSI oscillator is at 53.17, which does not indicate overbought or oversold conditions.
Many analysts are covering the stock, but their opinion is divided. Among the forty-three analysts, nine rate it as a Strong Buy, sixteen rate it as a Buy, twelve rate it as a Hold, five analysts rate it as an Underperform, and one rates it as a Sell.
TipRanks is a website that ranks experts (analysts and bloggers) according to their performance. According to TipRanks, among the analysts covering CSCO stock, there are 21 analysts who have a four or five-star rating, sixteen of them recommend the stock, and the other five top analysts rate it as a Hold.
On August 14, Morgan Stanley's analyst James Faucette maintained an Overweight rating and a $30 price target on Cisco. In a note to clients, Mr. Faucette stated that Cisco's orders and enterprise growth are compelling, and demand for new products continues to build out.
On August 13, during a conference call discussing its fiscal fourth-quarter earnings, Cisco said that it will lay off up to 6,000 workers, or 8 percent of its workforce, as part of a restructuring. Cisco spokesman John Earnhardt emphasized that the company is cutting in some areas so it can add in others, and that the net headcount year-over-year won't change. Cisco's total headcount is up over the past five years by about 8,000 people.
Cisco has not specified which kind of jobs it will cut. However, analysts assume that the job cuts will likely be concentrated among sales and marketing staff in former growth markets where sales momentum is waning, including in parts of Asia and Eastern Europe. Cisco encounters intense competition in those areas from Huawei Technologies, China's biggest maker of networking equipment. In my opinion, the planned layoff should not have an adverse effect on Cisco's stock price, since the company continues to create new jobs in growing areas, including software, security, and data center, in order to maintain its leadership.
According to a press release from June 26, industry research firm Gartner placed Cisco in the Leaders Quadrant of its 2014 Magic Quadrant for the Wired and Wireless LAN Access Infrastructure.
In response to Gartner's release, Sujai Hajela, senior vice president of Cisco Enterprise Networking, said:
Cisco continues to innovate in wired and wireless LAN technology and believes that our positioning in the Leader quadrant by Gartner for the third consecutive year is a confirmation of our strategy and business performance.
In my opinion, achieving a leading position by Gartner research in the Wired and Wireless LAN Access Infrastructure for the third consecutive year demonstrates Cisco's innovation strength and its strong growth prospects in this business.
Cisco has been able to show an earnings per share surprise in each one of the last four quarters, as shown in the table below.
In my opinion, the fact that the company succeeds to beat analyst expectations quarter after quarter demonstrates the strength of its business, and there is a good chance that Cisco will continue to surprise by reporting better-than-estimated results in the future.
CSCO's stock has been doing well this year. Since the start of the year, CSCO's stock has gained 8.9%, while the S&P 500 index has risen 5.8% and the Nasdaq Composite Index has increased 6.9%. However, in the years 2012 and 2013, CSCO's stock significantly underperformed the market. Since the beginning of 2012, CSCO's stock has gained only 35.1%, while the S&P 500 index has increased 55.5% and the Nasdaq Composite Index has risen 71.4%. Nevertheless, considering its good valuation metrics and solid earnings growth prospects, CSCO's stock, in my opinion, has plenty of room to move up.
Cisco has very good valuation metrics and solid earnings growth prospects. Its Enterprise Value-to-EBITDA ratio is very low at 7.75. Moreover, CSCO's stock is ranked second among all S&P 500 tech stocks, according to Portfolio123's "All-Stars: Greenblatt" powerful ranking system. In addition, Cisco achieved a leading position by Gartner research's Leaders Quadrant in the Wired and Wireless LAN Access Infrastructure for the third consecutive year. Furthermore, Cisco is generating strong free cash flows, and returns value to its shareholders by stock buybacks and increasing dividend payments - during fiscal year 2014, share repurchases were about $9.5 billion.
All these factors bring me to the conclusion that CSCO stock is a smart long-term investment. Furthermore, the rich, growing dividend represents a gratifying income.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = CTRP
As evidenced by the latest retail numbers, the U.S. consumer is spending selectively.
The Fed-driven economic expansion has been good for investors, but other factors appear to be weighing on consumer optimism.
So I am looking for better opportunities overseas like the Chinese online travel company Ctrip.
As clearly evidenced by the recent underperformance of many retail stocks, retail is not a great place to be right now. Macy's (NYSE:M) missed earnings this quarter as aggressive promotions took their toll on margins, causing the department store retailer to cut guidance. The company over-ordered inventory, expecting a big Q2 rebound in sales from Q1, but that never materialized.
If you listen to the economists, Macy's shouldn't be having these troubles. But according to Macy's CEO, Terry Lundgren, customers are still not feeling comfortable about spending more in an uncertain economic environment. And Macy's isn't the only one experiencing weak sales. Even non-brick and mortar retailer Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN) continues to lose money. U.S. Retail sales in July were flat, posting the weakest reading since January.
I am avoiding the U.S. consumer stocks. Even the restaurant group is weak, with McDonald's (NYSE:MCD) trading down for the year. The consumer is not exactly fat, happy, and healthy right now. The Fed-driven economic expansion may have been good for investors over the last few years, but now, the Fed is done.
So I am looking for better opportunities overseas. China and India have been severe underperformers the last few years relative to the U.S. markets. While the U.S. has been averaging 14%-15% over the last 5 years, those markets were up only 1%-3%. Now China and India seem almost immune from geopolitical tensions in Russia, Iraq, and Gaza, and are doing quite well.
One of the areas of the market I really like right now is China. One of the stocks I currently own is a Chinese online travel booking website called Ctrip.com (NASDAQ:CTRP). Ctrip offers hotel reservations, airline tickets and packaged tours to business and leisure travelers in China. Ctrip primarily targets individual travelers, as opposed to those traveling in groups. The company was founded in 1999, is based in Shanghai, and listed on the Nasdaq in 2003.
Ctrip.com is a $9 billion market cap company. It was an $8 stock back in 2008, and it's now a $67 stock. But I am not the only one that likes the stock right now. Priceline (NASDAQ:PCLN) likes the stock as well. Priceline recently took a 10% ownership stake in Ctrip, receiving a $500 million investment on August 6th. Priceline apparently likes the growth opportunities in China too.
Ctrip is not an inexpensive stock, but at the same time, the growth rate on the company is 22%. I have a target price of $118.
Over the last 10 years, Ctrip has delivered returns of 33.4%, versus only 6.2% for the S&P 500. It has also outperformed considerably over the last 5 years, up 21.1% versus 14.0%. It receives a performance grade of A-. Until recently, China has really underperformed, but even during that time, on a 3-year basis, Ctrip managed to keep pace with the U.S. market.
But now, China has grabbed the baton, and is starting to lead the pack once again. Over the last 12 months, China is ahead of the U.S. market. And Ctrip is up more than 48% over the last 12 months. This earns it a Momentum grade of A+.
Ctrip may be a consumer stock, but in China, the consumer appears to be on the rebound. Chinese consumer confidence grew for the second month in a row in July, and July retail sales increased 12.2% over last year.
I love China right now, and I feel good about the fact that a great company like Priceline agrees!
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = TGT
The data breach scandal in 2013 was a result of the company’s carelessness And absence of tighter security procedures.
Target is attempting aggressive expansion in Canada by opening 124 stores and 3 warehouses.
The company is taking many steps towards fixing the mistakes made, including the appointment of a new CEO and resetting the supply chain of the Canadian segment.
Target Corporation (NYSE:TGT) headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota is the United States' second-largest discount retailer with stores in the US as well as in Canada. The company has been performing extraordinarily well in the last few years. Back in 2008, its financial performance started to gradually increase beating the overall retail industry and rivals like Family Dollar Stores Inc. (NYSE:FDI) and Dollar General Corporation (NYSE:DG). The positive performance continued until it made a few blunders and witnessed a major fall in its financial position in financial year 2013. Let's take a look at the company's performance over the past few years compared to its peer groups.
Moreover, if we take a look at the company's sales revenues in the past few years we see a major decline in 2013.
Revenues of $64,948 million in 2008 increased to $73,301 million in 2012 reflecting an increase of about 13%. However, revenues suddenly fell in 2013 to $72,596 million reflecting a fall of nearly 0.96%.
The comparable sales growth of the company nearly tells the same story. The graph below shows that the company's comparable revenue growth rate has decreased from 3% in the year 2011 to negative 0.4% in 2013. Target's same stores sales have fallen in three of the past five quarters.
Some mistakes and wrong steps taken by Target at the wrong times proved to be one of the reasons for the downfall in 2013. This not only affected its current financial performance but also made the company's management uncertain about the company's future results. The executives' doubt regarding the company's second quarter results in 2014 was a warning sign for Target's investors. On Tuesday, August 5th the company lowered its second quarter EPS estimate to $0.78 compared to the original guidance Target gave in early May of $0.85 to $1. This announcement caused the stock prices to fall immediately by about 4% though the company will officially report its recent quarterly earnings on August 20th.
Moreover, Zacks Investment Research has also downgraded Target keeping in mind its poor future prospects.
Possible Reasons Behind the Poor Performance in 2013 and Reduced Confidence The revenues have fallen by 0.96% in the most recent financial year ending February 2014 compared to the figure reported in the previous year. Furthermore the gross profit margin decreased from 30.1% in 2011 to 29.8% in 2013 reflecting a fall of approximately 1%. The following discussed factors contributed to the unfortunate performance in financial year 2013 and are also making Target's investors anxious about the company's future.
The Company's US segment is involved in the selling of discounted merchandise. The decreased sales in its US segment are mainly because of the reduced purchasing power of the customers. Target's sales have been hit by consumers struggling with their stationary wages and higher income taxes. This caused them to decrease their spending on luxurious and other less important items while fulfilling their necessities.
The pie chart above shows that the biggest contribution of about 25% to the sales in 2013 was by the household essentials segment which includes basic necessities like pharmaceuticals, personal care, cleaning and paper products. Food and supplies also contributed nearly 21%. The other product categories haven't helped the revenues to significantly increase.
Data Breach Scandal: Target recently reported its disgraceful performance for financial year 2013 and the second quarter outlook for 2014. In the fourth quarter of 2013 Target experienced a data breach in which hackers stole payment information from customers including 40 million payment card numbers and 70 million of other piece of guests' data. The reason behind this leak was the company's weak security systems.
The company has been recording expenses related to this matter ever since the breach. In 2013, the company recorded a gross expense of $61 million along with a $44 million insurance receivable reflecting a net expense of $17 million. The company reported a net expense of about $18 million related to this scandal in the first quarter of 2014 and now the company is expecting to report a gross expense of $148 million and insurance receivable of $38 million in the second quarter. This reflects a net expense of about $111 million which will reduce the EPS by $0.11.
Debt Retirement: The company made a payment of about $1 billion to retire its long term debt of $725 million. This payment caused a pre-tax loss of $285 million which is expected to reduce the second quarter's EPS by $0.27.
Canada's Expansion Plan: The company already has 1795 stores in the US. In its first attempt at international expansion, Target opened 124 stores and 3 distribution channels in Canada in March 2013. This aggressive expansion plan turned out to be a blunder. The company faced unintended consequences as a result of mismanagement. Sales were much lower than expected. Target lost approximately $1 billion in 2013 in this hasty expansion plan and another $211 million in the first quarter of 2014. The company's poor planning regarding the supply chain caused problems long before the opening of its first store in Canada.
Moreover, dissatisfied customers complained about the higher prices in Canadian stores compared to US stores, empty shelves, and poor product selection.
Target Is On The Road To Rebuilding Itself:
The company is on its way to improving itself and restoring its lost reputation. The following are the few steps taken by the company towards its improvement.
Appointment Of New CEO: On August 12th Target appointed its new chief executive officer, Brain Cornell. He will be bringing decades of experience along with him which he has gained while working with PepsiCo, Wal-Mart's Sam's Club, Michaels Stores, and Safeway.
The company is quite hopeful that Cornell will definitely turn things around. John Molligan, interim president and CFO of Target said:
"While the environment in both the U.S. and Canada continues to be challenging, and results aren't yet where they need to be, we are making progress in our efforts to drive U.S. traffic and sales, improve our Canadian operations and advance Target's digital transformation''
Furthermore, the company's executives intend to become an omni-channel retailer in order to attract more and more customer traffic. He further added,
"With last week's announcement that the board has chosen Brian Cornell as Target's next Chairman and CEO, we are excited to welcome Brian to the team and committed to working together to accelerate Target's transformation and become a leading omni-channel retailer."
Mr. Cornell is expected to readjust Target's profit margins to adapt to the new world of retailing. Furthermore, the new CEO is expected to visit Target's Canadian stores to analyze how the business is being conducted and what improvements should be introduced.
Fixing the Mistakes made in Target Canada: Mark Schindele took over as Target Canada's president in late May. Mark Schindele is very keen about fixing the problems that arose in Target Canada right after opening 124 stores. The company will be focusing on improved pricing, merchandise selection issues, and repairing its supply chain.
Target's management said that they are required by their suppliers to place minimum orders. However, the problem arose when in Canada these orders were made for each of the three warehouses rather than an overall minimum order. This resulted in over ordering and a bulk of goods being stocked in warehouses. Moreover, a lot of goods were stuck in warehouses because of poor distribution processes. This caused the stores' shelves to remain empty which disappointed the customers. Ordering accuracy was another problem and the disparity in the ordering schedule and miscommunication between the supplier and Target caused confusion.
To overcome these problems Target Canada's president has introduced an inventory reporting system. He has employed staff to physically count the inventory too. These steps have helped to immediately improve in-stock levels by 4%.
The company's recovery plan is also aiming to win customers by lowering some prices that were previously quite high compared to other competitors. Target Canada will also be introducing some new products that the company carries in its US stores including cosmetics and electronic goods.
These problems were just the tip of the iceberg. There are many other issues including the data breach scandal that have hurt the company's reputation to a great extent. Target will need time to fix its blunders and recover from the snags. Let's see how the future unfolds and whether or not Target will be successful in rebuilding its image.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2013061406:30
SYMBOL = GSK
Avandia win a Pyrrhic victory for consumers
After three years of restrictions, advisers to the Food and Drug Administration decided that the diabetes drug rosiglitazone, marketed by GlaxoSmithKline as Avandia, is safe after all, and does not cause undue risk of heart attacks.
Their recommendation is based on extensive research by the Duke Clinical Research Institute.
Results of the new research on Avandia, which supports the original safety claims of GlaxoSmithKline GSK, +0.04% were presented at FDA meetings on June 4 and 5. As yet, the FDA has not issued a formal news release on Avandia, but the agency frequently follows the recommendation of its advisors.
News of Avandia’s safety is a Pyrrhic victory for consumers.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2013031404:29
SYMBOL = FMS
Fresenius Medical: FDA warning letter on dialyzer
German dialysis care provider Fresenius Medical Care AG & Co KGaA FMS, -0.08% said Thursday it has received a warning letter from the U.S. Food & Drug Administration saying the design validation process for specific dialyzers manufactured in Utah is incomplete.
MAIN FACTS:
-The FDA asserts the company didn't conduct adequate design verification studies of electron beam sterilized polysulfone dialyzers, but the letter didn't impose a product recall, the company said.
-"Fresenius Medical Care North America is committed to working with the FDA to resolve the concerns stated in the letter," said chief executive Rice Powell said in a press statement.
-The company said it doesn't expect the letter to have an effect on revenue and earnings guidance this year.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014081308:11
SYMBOL = SEAS
SeaWorld cuts sales view, shares drop
SeaWorld Entertainment Inc. SEAS, +0.05% which has faced heat over the treatment of killer whales, said Wednesday it would pursue cost cuts as it slashed its full-year revenue guidance after second-quarter results fell well below expectations.
Shares of the company fell 17% in recent premarket trading.
The theme-park operator, which owns three of its namesake parks as well as two Busch Gardens, said it expected its full-year revenue to fall by 6% to 7%. The low end of its previous guidance range of $1.49 billion to $1.52 billion would have represented revenue growth of 2.1%.
SeaWorld also said it will review its costs, among other initiatives, in an attempt to generate savings that will be reinvested into new attractions as well as to return cash to shareholders. The company, which also unveiled a $250 million share-buyback program Wednesday, said it would announce more details about its investments in the coming days.
The moves come as SeaWorld faces increased pressure and protests from animal-rights groups who have accused the company of mistreating its captive orcas. Such groups pressured Southwest Airlines Co. to end its relationship with SeaWorld. Late last month, the airline and SeaWorld did indeed terminate their marketing relationship, although Southwest called it "strictly a business decision."
The company said attendance at its parks grew 0.3% to 6.6 million in the second quarter compared with the year-before period. Typically, the company's revenue for the year is driven by its results in the second and third quarters. Chief Executive Jim Atchison said that lower attendance at destination parks partially offset the benefits of a shift in Easter's timing and favorable weather conditions.
"We were pleased to report attendance growth in the quarter despite a challenging industry and competitive environment and a tough comparison to the prior year quarter, which included the attendance benefit from opening our largest expansion ever at SeaWorld Orlando," he added.
Meanwhile, through June 30, attendance was down 4.3% year over year, according to the company.
Overall, SeaWorld reported a second-quarter profit of $37.3 million, or 43 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier loss of $15.9 million, or 18 cents a share. Revenue declined 1.5% to $405.2 million.
Analysts had projected 59 cents a share in earnings and $445 million in revenue, according to Thomson Reuters.
Revenue generated per theme-park visitor fell 1.8% to $61.54.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2013010106:56
SYMBOL = JNJ
FDA clears J&J drug for tough-to-treat TB
--FDA approves J&J's Sirturo but requires prominent warning label
--Drug is unlikely to be a big moneymaker but may accrue goodwill to J&J
--Fewer than 100 Americans suffer from the disease, multidrug resistant TB
(Adds details on safety risks in paragraph eight, and comments from consumer group Public Citizen and FDA official in paragraphs 13-16.)
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved Johnson & Johnson's JNJ, +0.12% drug to treat a form of resistant tuberculosis that is uncommon in the U.S. but growing globally.
The drug, Sirturo, will treat patients with multidrug resistant tuberculosis, or MDR-TB, a possibly fatal disease that affects as many as 630,000 people world-wide who can't be cured with existing therapies alone. Tuberculosis is a bacterial infection that mostly involves the lungs.
Sirturo, also known as bedaquiline, is not expected to be a large moneymaker for Johnson & Johnson JNJ, +0.12% one of the world's largest health-care conglomerate, because the disease is prevalent in poorer countries unable to afford high prices for the treatment. Providing the drug, though, could help the company create goodwill among regulators, governments and patients around the world.
"The commercial opportunity is very limited," said Pamela Van Houten, a J&J spokesperson. "This is part of our commitment to advance innovative medicines that help address serious public health issues."
The company said it expects to begin selling Sirturo in the second quarter of 2013, and won't announce its sales price until then. Fewer than 100 Americans have MDR-TB, according to J&J, but FDA approval is likely to strengthen the chances for approval in regions where the disease is more prevalent, including India, China and Eastern Europe.
However, the drug's potential side effects, including an increased risk of death, has raised concerns among members of the FDA. The agency will require that a prominent warning label be placed on the drug, informing consumers that patients taking Sirturo in clinical trials saw increased rates of fatalities.
"Because the drug also carries some significant risks, doctors should make sure they use it appropriately and only in patients who don't have other treatment options," said Edward Cox, an FDA official.
About 11.4% of patients taking Sirturo died in during clinical trials, compared to 2.5% taking placebos.
The FDA granted Sirturo accelerated approval, which is a type of temporary approval for diseases that don't have viable treatment options, based on less clinical data than required for traditional drug approvals.
The accelerated approval was based on data from a pair of Phase 2 studies--one of which showed 77.6% of patients in the treatment group reaching treatment success after 24 weeks compared with 57.6% of those in the placebo group.
It is still unclear, though, whether Sirturo caused the increase death rate, said Mel Spigelman, chief executive of the Global Alliance for TB Drug Development, which is partnering with J&J to develop Sirturo in more common strains of tuberculosis.
"It looked more likely that this was just a bad coincidence," Dr. Spigelman said. "But you have to be careful, and the monitoring will have to be rigorous."
Last month, an FDA panel supported a type of early approval for J&J's experimental drug; however, panel members were divided on whether Sirturo played a role in deaths seen in clinical studies.
"A greater number of deaths in the bedaquiline arm is concerning," FDA Deputy Director of Anti-Infective Products, said in a presentation to the panel. "The role of bedaquiline in deaths where hepatoxocity and cardiac failure are contributory could not be ruled out."
The consumer group Public Citizen, which had been strongly opposed to approval, said Monday that it was disappointed in the FDA's decision.
"There were five times more deaths in the drug group than in the placebo group," said Sidney Wolfe, director of health research at Public Citizen. "I don't see how [the FDA] can be so dismissive about it."
Tuberculosis usually is treated with a combination of four drugs for at least six months, according to the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. Some forms of tuberculosis, however, can't be treated with currently available drugs, which the FDA has said "threatens to erode the progress made in the world-wide control of tuberculosis."
Sirturo is designed to work in a new way to treat tuberculosis and would be used with other drugs.
Shares of J&J rose 27 cents to $69.75.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2012082109:04
SYMBOL = MDT
Medtronic unit gets FDA warning letter
Medtronic Inc.'s MDT, -0.47% business for neuromodulation devices recently received a Food and Drug Administration warning letter related mainly to the company's processes for handling complaints, the medical-device maker disclosed Tuesday.
"We are working with the FDA to quickly resolve the issues," and do not expect a material impact on financial results, Chief Financial Officer Gary Ellis said on a conference call.
The FDA issues warning letters when it finds certain issues it wants companies to fix. The agency can block approval for new products that relate to these problems until the warning letters are lifted.
Medtronic's neuromodulation business includes pacemaker-like devices that stimulate the brain to treat conditions like Parkinson's disease, spinal-cord stimulators for chronic pain and other products. The business accounted for about 10% of Medtronic's $4 billion in total sales in the recently concluded fiscal first quarter.
The Minneapolis-based company reported quarterly results that met Wall Street expectations while backing its fiscal-year earnings guidance. Shares were down 1.5% to $40.84 in premarket trading.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2012012717:55
SYMBOL = ALKS
FDA approves Amylin's Bydureon diabetes drug
FDA approves first once-weekly injection for type 2 diabetes
--Bydureon's road to approval was bumpy due to safety concerns
--Drug is due to be available in U.S. pharmacies in February
(Adds comment from Amylin CEO beginning in seventh paragraph, adds stock prices in eighth paragraph, background in 10th through 13th paragraphs.)
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc.'s AMLN diabetes drug Bydureon after a prolonged regulatory process in which the agency required extra testing to alleviate safety concerns.
Bydureon is the first once-weekly treatment for type 2 diabetes, the most common form of diabetes, Amylin and its partner Alkermes Inc. ALKS, -0.18% which developed the extended-release technology for Bydureon, said in a press release Friday. The companies said the drug will be available in U.S. pharmacies in February.
The FDA-approved prescribing label for Bydureon has a prominent warning stating that the drug caused certain kinds of thyroid tumors in rats at clinically relevant exposures in testing, according to the FDA website.
The warning notes that it's unknown whether the drug causes such tumors in humans. But it says Bydureon shouldn't be used in patients with a personal or family history of medullary thyroid carcinoma.
Bydureon is an injectable, extended-release version of Amylin's older diabetes drug, Byetta, which is injected twice daily. Byetta and Bydureon share an active ingredient, exenatide. Bydureon was approved for sale by European regulators in June.
The drug is designed to work by helping the body to make more insulin, which can reduce high blood-sugar levels.
"We are clear to begin the next steps towards bringing the first weekly dose diabetes therapy to the market in the United States," Amylin Chief Executive Daniel Bradbury said on a conference call with analysts.
Amylin shares jumped 15% to $14 in after-hours trading. Alkermes shares rose 4.7% to $20.
Some analysts have estimated Bydureon sales could reach nearly $2 billion annually by the end of this decade. But it will face a crowded market, as drug companies have responded to the rising incidence of diabetes worldwide by developing new treatments.
One competitor is Novo Nordisk A/S's NVO, -0.04% Victoza, a once-daily injectable drug approved two years ago. Although a once-weekly drug like Bydureon might seem more convenient for patients than once-daily, a study released last year showed that Victoza reduced blood-sugar levels to a greater degree than Bydureon. Victoza's label also has a warning about the potential risk of thyroid tumors.
Amylin will try to mitigate Victoza's advantage with pricing. The company said Bydureon will cost about $323 for a one-month supply, while a high-dose pack of Victoza costs about $421 per month, according to Deutsche Bank.
"Our pricing strategy is designed to rapidly make Bydureon available to as many patients as possible," Bradbury said on a conference call with analysts.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2012021716:23
SYMBOL = HSP
Drug analysts still cautious about Hospira
BOSTON (MarketWatch) – Despite a recent bump in the stock, drug industry analysts are still largely cautious about buying Hospira Inc. shares as the specialty pharmaceuticals maker struggles to bring its manufacturing operations back into regulatory compliance.
Hospira’s HSP, +0.01%   woes began in 2010, when the U.S. Food and Drug Administration issued the company a warning letter about its quality-control practices, particularly those at its Rocky Mount, N.C. manufacturing plant. The facility reportedly contributed almost a quarter of the company’s revenue at the time.
As a result, Hospira has been forced to temporarily shut down or limit production of certain products as it brings its operations back into compliance. Hospira’s problems have been further compounded by the recall of some of its drug-delivery pumps.
Investors first took the company’s regulatory issues in stride, and despite the warning letter, pushed the stock to a 52-week peak of $59.20 last April.
But the party came to an end in October, when a far weaker-than-expected earnings report spooked investors and tanked the stock. Hospira shares hit a 52-week low of $26.92 in early December, but managed to climb into the mid-$30s over the past month. And the stock got a needed boost on Tuesday, when a better-than-expected earnings report sent shares up nearly 10%. The stock closed at $37.92 on Thursday.
Most analysts, however, still remain guarded about the stock’s near-term prospects. As of Feb. 15, the average rating was hold, with a price target of $35.40, according to FactSet.
Leerink Swann analysts, for example, maintained their market perform, or hold, rating after Tuesday’s earnings report. They did, however, raise their valuation to $36 a share from $30, and noted the company appeared to be working hard to resolve its regulatory issues.
“In 2012 and 2013, Hospira will likely be a “show-me” story as management works to resolve ongoing quality control, manufacturing, and customer service-related issues,” wrote Leerink Swann analyst Rick Wise, in his note issued Tuesday.
“With the overhang of timing uncertainty likely to be in place for at least the next few quarters, we’re inclined to move to the sidelines until we gain greater clarity,” he continued.
“We’re also inclined to think Hospira shares could remain range-bound in the near term given what seems likely to be a protracted period of uncertainty that could stretch into mid-to-late 2012,” Wise added.
Collins Stewart analysts were more optimistic, raising their price target Tuesday to $43 from $35. The firm has a buy rating on the stock.
“We believe that Hospira’s earnings potential is still under-appreciated by the Street,” wrote Collins Stewart analyst Louise Chen in her note.
“We expect Hospira to update its long term financial guidance for 2012 to 2016 as it progresses through 2012. Once the company reaches an inflection point in supply, sales should improve,” said Chen, adding that Hospira’s product supply should “stabilize” by 2013.
Chen also said that if Hospira were able to resume marketing of its recalled drug pump Symbiq, noticeably improve production at its Rocky Mount plant, and launch several new products, the stock could go up to $60 a share within the next 12 months.
However, if the company faces further FDA action, drug supplies do not improve, its sedation drug Precedex ends up facing early generic competition, and few new drugs are launched, the stock could sink to $33 a share. One of Precedex’s key patents expires in July 2013.
RBC Capital was more pessimistic and maintained its sell rating.
“Given our fundamental thesis that getting manufacturing back to ‘normalized levels’ will take longer than investors expect and that competition to key products, such as docetaxel and vancomycin, could significantly pressure the top line, we maintain our underperform rating on the stock,” wrote RBC analyst Shibani Malhotra, in his note on Tuesday.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2011110706:30
SYMBOL = BMY
Bayer shares up after FDA clears blood thinner
- Strokes prevention indication expected to generate most of the drug's sales
-- Pharma division fighting generic competitors and health reforms
FRANKFURT (MarketWatch) -- Shares in pharmaceutical conglomerate Bayer AG (BAYN.XE) rose sharply Monday, after U.S. authorities approved its blood thinner Xarelto as a treatment to prevent strokes, an indication that is expected to generate the lion's share of the drug's sales.
The approval is seen as an important step for the future of the German company's pharma division, which continues to suffer from strong generic competition and health reforms.
Xarelto, which Bayer developed with Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), is already approved in Europe and the U.S. for use in certain surgery patients, but approval for long-term use in patients with atrial fibrillation--a heart rhythm disorder that increases the risk of strokes--is likely to add significantly to current sales.
At 1019 GMT, Bayer shares were up 2.8% at EUR46.14, while the DAX was down 1.7%.
Overall, the FDA said Xarelto's risk of major bleeding was similar to that of older stroke prevention drug warfarin but it caused less bleeding into the brain and more bleeding into the stomach and intestines.
The drug was also approved with a warning that patients should consult their doctors if they want to stop taking it because that can increase the risk of strokes.
"We believe this warning could be lifted when a study is completed to demonstrate that patients can be safely transitioned to alternative therapy," Deutsche Bank said.
However, WestLB analyst Norbert Barth believes Bristol-Myer Squibb's BMY, -0.66% and Pfizer Inc.'s PFE, -0.29% Eliquis has the potential to become the first-line treatment option for the atrial fibrillation indication, whereas Xarelto might be used in more advanced stages, limiting the product's overall peak sales potential.
Although Eliquis could ultimately emerge as market leader given recent data showing superiority to warfarin on both stroke reduction and bleeding risk, Deutsche Bank said: "Xarelto will now have a more meaningful window to grab market share than we expected."
Bayer plans to launch Xarelto for stroke prevention on the U.S. market in coming days and expects to get the final green light for the drug from European authorities until the year-end.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021807:32
SYMBOL = GRMN
Garmin guidance falls below expectations
Garmin Ltd. issued downbeat guidance for 2015 as the company cited the effects of a strong U.S. dollar and weaker demand for car navigation devices.
The company's earnings in the most recent quarter fell just shy of analysts' projections, while its revenue topped them.
Garmin said it expects to post $3.10 a share in earnings for 2015 to go along with revenue of $2.9 billion as the company expects currency headwinds to limit growth. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had projected $3.24 a share in earnings and $2.92 billion in revenue.
The company's shares fell 3.2% in recent premarket trading.
Garmin has had to contend with the growth of smartphones, which consumers are increasingly using for GPS services and travel directions. The company on Wednesday acknowledged the continuing struggles for the personal navigational device market, adding that it expects growth in its aviation, marine and fitness units to offset weakness in its automotive and mobile segment.
In the most recent period, which ended Dec. 27, Garmin's automotive and mobile segment's sales declined 11% to $339.8 million, although the decline was offset by 70% revenue growth from the fitness unit and increases of 7% and 18% from the aviation and marine units, respectively. The outdoor segment posted an 8% revenue decline, however.
The nonautomotive/mobile segments--marine, outdoor, fitness and aviation--accounted for 58% of total revenues in the most recent quarter.
Garmin posted a quarterly profit of $210.2 million, or $1.09 a share, up from $163.6 million, or 83 cents a share, a year ago. Pro forma per-share earnings rose to 77 cents a share from 76 cents.
Revenue rose 5.7% to $803.3 million.
Analysts had expected the company to post a profit of 78 cents a share and revenue of $790 million.
Garmin also unveiled a $300 million share-buyback program as well as plans to increase its quarterly dividend to 51 cents a share.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2011102609:18
SYMBOL = HSP
Hospira swings to loss on plant charges
Hospira Inc. HSP, +0.01% swung to third-quarter loss after a production slowdown at one of its drug manufacturing plants weighed down earnings.
Hospira, which spun off from Abbott Laboratories (ABT) in 2004, has continued to wrestle with costs stemming from a U.S. Food and Drug Administration warning letter it received last year that raised concerns over the manufacturing processes at two North Carolina plants. The company said earlier this month that problems at its Clayton, N.C., facility were fixed, though issues at its other plant in Rocky Mount, N.C., had not yet been addressed to the FDA's satisfaction.
The delays prompted the company to slash its full-year guidance, and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services on Tuesday lowered its outlook on the company, saying the distraction has slowed product releases and pressured margins.
"Addressing these issues is Hospira's top priority, and our organization is committed to full resolution," Chief Executive F. Michael Ball said Wednesday.
In the latest quarter, Hospira posted a loss of $88.9 million, or 54 cents a share, compared with a prior-year profit of $71.4 million, or 42 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding acquisition costs, restructuring charges and other items, earnings fell to 66 cents from 74 cents as revenue grew 2.9% to $976.7 million.
The company's lowered guidance earlier this month had called for a 66-cent per-share profit with $977 million of revenue.
Gross margin narrowed to 31.1% from 38.7%.
Sales of specialty injectables--Hospira's biggest top-line contributor--rose 9.3% on a constant-currency basis, while medication management systems sales decreased 7.2%.
Sales adjusted for currency edged up 0.1% in the Americas and jumped 39% in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Revenue adjusted for exchange rates was off 0.6% in the Asia-Pacific region.
Shares closed at $30.32 Tuesday and were inactive premarket. The stock has fallen 46% this year.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2011101707:23
SYMBOL = VVUS
Vivus resubmits FDA application for obesity drug
Vivus Inc. VVUS, -3.79% has resubmitted a new drug application for its Qnexa obesity drug, aiming once more for the approval of the drug from the Food and Drug Administration.
The FDA rejected Qnexa last year, asking for more information about the potential risk that one of Qnexa's active ingredients, topiramate, could cause birth defects in babies born to women who take the drug.
In response to the FDA concerns, Vivus agreed to conduct an analysis to assess fetal outcomes in offspring of women exposed to topiramate during the first trimester of pregnancy. Initial results of the study, titled "Fortress," are due in December.
As part of its new application, which the FDA last month approved for early resubmission, Vivus proposes a prescribing label warning that the drug shouldn't be taken by women with childbearing potential.
Vivus is one of three companies trying to get a new obesity treatment approved in the U.S. Vivus and Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. ARNA, +0.42% both had their diet drugs rejected by FDA panels and ultimately by the agency itself, while Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. OREX, -0.32% suspended development of its weight-loss drug Contrave in June after U.S. regulators asked the company to conduct additional clinical testing that Orexigen said was unnecessary.
Vivus shares closed Friday at $8.58 and were inactive in premarket trade. The stock is down 8.4% since the start of the year.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2011060608:10
SYMBOL = IPXL
Impax gets FDA warning letter for plant issues
Impax Laboratories Inc. IPXL, -1.17% received a U.S. Food and Drug Administration warning letter related to its Hayward, Calif., manufacturing facility that led to the voluntary recall of its generic cholesterol drug, fenofibrate.
The pharmaceutical company said the inspection, conducted between Dec. 13 and Jan. 21, cited issues related to sampling and testing of in-process materials and drug products, production record review and the process for investigating the failure of certain manufacturing batches.
Because of the FDA's initial inspection results, the company said it conducted a voluntary recall in March of five lots of 200-milligram fenofibrate capsules at the wholesale level.
Impax said the Hayward facility's production level was reduced during the past three months to implement several changes in its quality system. The site is now producing product at a normal pace and Impax doesn't plan to reduce its product manufacturing or hold shipments of finished product.
The company has 15 business days to respond to the FDA's May 31 warning letter, which was received Friday.
"We intend to promptly respond to the FDA's letter, and have already begun to implement changes and establish procedures that address the observations cited during the inspection," said President and Chief Executive Larry Hsu. "We will work diligently to remedy any outstanding issues in a timely manner."
The company reported in May its first-quarter profit dropped 89% as revenue fell 66%, due in part to an insufficient supply of generic Adderall XR, an attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder drug.
Shares closed at $25.65 on Friday and were inactive premarket. The stock has risen 26% over the past year.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2011052408:13
SYMBOL = MDT
Medtronic profit falls 19% on charges; revenue up
Medtronic Inc.'s MDT, -0.47% fiscal fourth-quarter earnings fell 19% on restructuring and other charges as the largest standalone medical-device maker reported a small increase in total revenue that beat analysts' expectations.
Medtronic has several new products it expects will help combat various challenges, such as market-share pressure and pressure on product prices amid tougher bargaining from hospitals. But growth rates for top markets where it operates remain sluggish and continue to challenge the whole industry.
The company in March said it resolved issues at two manufacturing facilities cited in Food and Drug Administration warning letters, clearing the way for important product approvals. Medtronic also finally won FDA approval for its "Protecta" implantable defibrilators, which should help it better compete with rivals St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) and Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX).
The company recently appointed General Electric Co.'s (GE) GE Healthcare Systems Chief Executive Omar Ishrak as chairman and chief executive to succeed Bill Hawkins, who plans to retire.
For the quarter ended April 29, Medtronic reported a profit of $776 million, or 72 cents a share, down from $954 million, or 86 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding restructuring-related charges and prior-year impacts from the U.S. health-care overhaul, earnings were up at 90 cents from 89 cents.
Revenue increased 2.4% to $4.3 billion and was flat excluding currency fluctuations.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters most recently forecast earnings of 92 cents on revenue of $4.29 million.
The company said revenue from its cardiac rhythm disease management segment declined 7%, or 9% excluding currency effects.
The smaller cardiovascular unit's revenue was up 16%, and 13% excluding currency effects, while spinal-segment sales dropped 1% and 2%, respectively.
Shares closed Monday at $41.26 and were inactive premarket. The stock is up 11% this year.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2011030909:19
SYMBOL = MDT
Medtronic resolves FDA issues
Medtronic Inc. MDT, -0.47% said Wednesday that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has told the medical technology company that issues noted in two warning letters have been resolved. Medtronic had received the letters after inspections of its facilities in August 2009 and December 2008. "We are encouraged that the action plans implemented by our teams have resolved the observations identified by the FDA in both warning letters," said William Hawkins, chairman and chief executive officer of Medtronic. Shares of Medtronic were up 1% in premarket trading.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2010031708:12
SYMBOL = MDT
Medtronic gets FDA OK for diabetes monitoring
Medical technology company Medtronic, Inc. MDT, -0.47% on Wednesday said it has received U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval for the MiniMed Paradigm REAL-Time Revel System, a diabetes management system that includes insulin pump therapy, continuous glucose monitoring and diabetes therapy management software. The system incorporates new monitoring features including predictive alerts that can give early warning to people with diabetes so they can take action to prevent dangerous high or low glucose events, the company said.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2010012606:44
SYMBOL = NVO
Novo Nordisk shares rally on diabetes-drug approval
Novo Nordisk's market capitalization swelled by around $2.5 billion on Tuesday after U.S. authorities approved a diabetes drug from the Danish firm.
Novo Nordisk NVO, -0.04% said the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has granted approval for Victoza to treat type 2 diabetes in adults.
The drug is to be used in conjunction with diet and exercise to improve glycemic control.
The Danish drugmaker said it expects to introduce Victoza in the U.S. in four to six weeks.
The company said Victoza is unique in that it's not associated with weight gain, and trial data demonstrate a reduction in body weight. The FDA has not yet approved a higher dosing of Victoza to specifically tackle obesity.
The drug will carry a warning on the risk of tumors, and it's not recommended for use by patients who already are at risk of thyroid cancer.
Byetta, from Eli Lilly LLY, +0.09% doesn't carry such a warning.
Some analysts expect the drug to become what's called a blockbuster, or one that generates peak sales of more than $1 billion.
On OMX Copenhagen, Novo Nordisk shares climbed 6.5% and reached an all-time high, even as some analysts said the market is factoring in too optimistic an assessment on the drug.
"While the approval is a positive for the company, the FDA's actions suggest a limited commercial potential for the drug," said Savant Ahmed, an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland. He has a sell rating on the stock.
Ipsen (IPN) shares rose 3.7% on Euronext Paris as the French company and Roche (ROG) have a diabetes drug in late-stage trials.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015010716:51
SYMBOL = NVS
FDA panel recommends approval for first generic biotech drug
Generic biotech drugs took one step closer to reality after a Food and Drug Administration advisory panel recommended the agency approve a Novartis AG NVS, -0.06% version of Amgen's Inc.'s AMGN, +1.00% drug Neupogen, according to media reports late Wednesday. In a 14-0 vote, the panel agreed with FDA staff that Novartis's Zarxio was "highly similar" to Neupogen, which is used to treat infections during chemotherapy. Unlike pharmaceuticals, which have had cheaper generic versions for years, biotech drugs have enjoyed years of marketing protection from the FDA because of the difficulty in proving similarity between biologic treatments. Shares of Amgen declined 0.2% to $158.01 on moderate volume.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2013032716:44
SYMBOL = BIIB
Biogen shares charge late after approval won for MS drug
hares of Biogen Idec Inc. made a late charge Wednesday after the U.S. Food and Drug Administration announced it would approve the company’s multiple sclerosis treatment Tecfidera.
Bloomberg News
But Biogen BIIB  lost some momentum in after-hours trading. Shares were  up more than 3% during the last half-hour of trading to end the day at $182.68, a gain of $5.59 a share for the biotech giant. That coincides with the FDA’s release, which said that two clinical trials showed users of Tecfidera capsules had fewer MS relapses compared with patients taking placebo. There also were fewer occurrences in which a disability worsened with Tecfidera use, the FDA said.
After hours, though, shares fell more than 1.5% to $179.86 as the Street apparently struggled to digest the significance of the ruling.
“No drug provides a cure for multiple sclerosis so it is important to have a variety of treatment options available for patients,” said Dr. Russell Katz, director of the neurology products division in the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research.
The news may hurt shares of Israeli-based Teva Pharmaceutical Industries  TEVA , which had called for greater scrutiny of Tecfidera, also known as BG-12. Teva shares ended the day down more than one percent to $39.50, dropping precipitously on higher volume in the last half-hour of trading. But they also started to climb back up in after-hours trading.
Teva, which makes a competing injectable MS drug called Copaxone, had called for the FDA to scrutinize possible side effects of Tecfidera. Copaxone comprises about 40% of the MS market.
The FDA did say that Tecfidera may reduce white blood cell counts, thus breaking down some barriers to infection, though no significant increase in infections was seen during trials. The drug also can cause the skin to become flushed and create nausea, though those side effects may diminish.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014081207:07
SYMBOL = EXAS
FDA approves DNA test for colon cancer
The Food and Drug Administration on Monday approved a DNA test to screen for colon cancer in people with a lower risk of developing the disease, the first such test of its kind to be cleared by U.S. regulators.
The test, called Cologuard, is used to detect genetic mutations in patients’ stool associated with cancerous and precancerous growths in the colon. Doctors must prescribe the test, but patients collect stool samples at home and ship the samples to laboratories for analysis.
The FDA said the Cologuard test, made by Exact Sciences Inc. EXAS, -0.14% identified more cancers during clinical trials than a rival blood test.
Colon cancer is the fourth most common type of tumor, and was responsible for 51,000 deaths in the U.S. last year, according to the National Cancer Institute.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2011062008:23
SYMBOL = PFE
FDA approves pain offering from Pfizer, Acura
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has approved the marketing of a new pain drug from Pfizer Inc. PFE, -0.29% and Acura Pharmaceuticals Inc. ACUR, +10.53%
The drug, Oxecta, is an immediate-release version of oxycodone and was designed to prevent drug tampering and misabuse.
"We recognize our responsibility to physicians and patients and remain committed to appropriate access to pain treatment and developing medicines to potentially address this important public health and safety issue," said Pfizer President Olivier Brandicourt.
In May, Pfizer reported higher first-quarter profit, though revenue slipped on disappointing sales of its top-seller Lipitor.
The company has continued to brace for Lipitor to lose U.S. patent protection in November, with plans to significantly cut research-and-development costs and shed some of its businesses.
Shares of Pfizer, which closed Friday at $20.26, were recently down 0.7% in premarket trading. Shares of Acura closed Friday at $3.87 and were halted premarket.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2011070116:02
SYMBOL = JNJ
FDA approves new anticlot drug from J&J and bayer
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved a new drug to prevent blood clots that was co-developed by Johnson & Johnson JNJ, -0.05% and Bayer AG (BAYRY, BAYN.XE).
The clearance of the anticoagulant Xarelto is the latest development in an emerging battle among major drug companies including Pfizer Inc. PFE, -0.29% over what is expected to become a multibillion-dollar market for new blood thinners treating cardiovascular conditions, which may replace older drugs including warfarin.
Xarelto has been available in Europe since 2008, but the FDA in 2009 declined to approve it because it wanted more information. J&J said in January it submitted the requested information, clearing the way for the FDA's green light.
On Friday, J&J and Bayer said the FDA approved Xarelto to prevent certain blood clots, known as venous thromboembolism, or VTE, in people undergoing knee- and hip-replacement surgery. Xarelto also is known by the generic name for its active ingredient, rivaroxaban.
J&J said Xarelto is the first new oral anticoagulant approved to prevent VTE in joint-replacement surgeries in the U.S. An older drug used for this purpose, enoxaparin, is injected.
The wholesale acquisition cost for Xarelto will be $6.75 per day, said Paul Chang, vice president of medical affairs for internal medicine at J&J's Janssen Pharmaceuticals unit.
While the FDA's green light is a victory for J&J and Bayer, they are hoping for additional regulatory approvals for more uses of the drug that are more crucial to Xarelto's market success.
A bigger market for Xarelto and other similar blood thinners lies in their use to prevent strokes in people with a heart-rhythm disorder called atrial fibrillation. J&J and Bayer have filed applications to European and U.S. regulators for approval to market Xarelto for this use, and decisions could come later this year.
J&J will primarily handle commercialization of Xarelto in the U.S., with support from Bayer's sales force. Bayer handles marketing of the drug outside the U.S.
Xarelto enters a competitive market. Last year, the FDA approved Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH's (BRI.YY) Pradaxa blood thinner to prevent strokes in atrial fibrillation.
Pfizer and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. BMY, -0.66% have co-developed another blood thinner, apixaban. Last week, they released limited results of a clinical trial that some analysts interpreted as suggesting that apixaban was superior to Xarelto, though the drugs weren't compared head-to-head.
Xarelto, however, now has the advantage of beating apixaban to the U.S. market, as well as a once-daily dosing regimen, versus twice daily for apixaban.
J&J's Chang said it was premature to conclude that apixaban has the upper hand over Xarelto. "We really don't know much about the results of the apixaban study," he said. "We need to see the full presentation and understand the data."
Adverse events associated with Xarelto in clinical studies included bleeding.
Barclays estimates the so-called warfarin-replacement market will reach $12 billion by 2020.
Shares of J&J, which has had a string of drug pipeline victories this year, recently traded up 1.2% to $67.30.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2010101518:29
SYMBOL = AGN
FDA approves Allergan's Botox for migraines
 The Food and Drug Administration late Friday approved Allergan Inc.'s [s:agn] Botox to prevent chronic migraine headaches. Botox, approved by the FDA in 2002 as a cosmetic treatment for so-called frown lines between the eyebrows, has also been approved for certain types of muscle spasms, severe underarm sweating, and neck pain associated with cervical dystonia, a condition where the neck muscles involuntarily contract. Shares of Allergan rose 5.1% to $72.36 on light volume in after-hours activity.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2010062407:50
SYMBOL = MRK
FDA approves Merck asthma treatment
rck & Co. Inc. MRK, +0.02% said Thursday that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has approved its asthma-treating drug Dulera. A Reuters report suggested that because Dulera combines an inhaled corticosteroid and a long-acting beta agonist, it might provide competition to drugs such as GlaxoSmithKline PLC's GSK, -0.11% Advair and AstraZeneca PLC's AZN, -0.01% Symbicort. Shares of Merck were unchanged in premarket trading.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2009121408:47
SYMBOL = LLY
FDA approves long-acting Zyprexa
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has approved a long-acting version of Eli Lilly & Co.'s LLY, +0.09% blockbuster anti-psychotic medication Zyprexa for the treatment of schizophrenia, the company said early Monday. As opposed to existing formulations, the new version of Zyprexa, called Zyprexa Relprevv, is effective for up to four weeks. Lilly said the long-acting version allows psychiatric patients to more easily comply with their medication regimens.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2009060309:31
SYMBOL = PFE
FDA approves Pfizer cancer drug for dogs
 The Food and Drug Administration said Wednesday that it has approved the first cancer treatment specifically developed for dogs. The medication, called Palladia, is to be used to treat cancerous tumors in the skin. Currently, canine cancers are treated with drugs that were developed for use in humans. Palladia was developed by Pfizer Inc. PFE, -0.29%
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014080519:54
SYMBOL = S
Sprint ends bid for T-Mobile, says WSJ; shares plunge
 Sprint Corp. S, +0.40% is abandoning its bid for T-Mobile US Inc. TMUS, -2.39% due to daunting regulatory hurdles, The Wall Street Journal reported Tuesday, citing unnamed sources familiar with the matter. Sprint planned to announce the end of its pursuit for the rival wireless provider early Wednesday, the report said. Based on signals from Justice Department and Federal Communications Commission officials, Sprint and its parent Softbank Corp. 9984, -0.61% SFTBF, -0.19% decided obtaining approval would prove too difficult, although Sprint remained open to other deals in the future, the report said. Following the Wall Street Journal report, shares of Sprint fell sharply in after-hours trading, down more than 16% just ahead of the end of the extended session.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014073023:14
SYMBOL = JWN
Nordstrom Inc. JWN, -0.06% plans to announce a deal to buy men's fashion website Trunk Club for an undisclosed amount, the New York Times reported late Wednesday. Such news would confirm earlier reports by Re/code and others that the Seattle-based corporation was looking to acquire the Chicago-based online retailer, which offers personal styling advice for men and sells about 100 clothing brands. In addition to its Internet presence, Trunk Club runs showrooms in Chicago, Dallas and Washington, with another set to open in Los Angeles next month, according to the New York Times report.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071516:31
SYMBOL = YHOO
Yahoo advertising declines to weigh on revenue
Two years into Marissa Mayer's tenure at Yahoo Inc., advertisers are still sitting on the sidelines.
Yahoo on Tuesday reported its total revenue, minus commissions paid to partners for Web traffic, fell 3%, its fourth decline in the past five quarters. Revenue from display advertising, excluding traffic costs, fell 7% to $394 million.
The lackluster results come at a time when Ms. Mayer needs advertisers most. Pressure on the chief executive is increasing as Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., the Chinese e-commerce giant in which Yahoo owns a 23% stake, prepares to hold an initial public offering that will shift investor focus from that highflying asset to Yahoo's stagnant core business.
Despite announcing a bevy of new ad offerings, such as native ads, digital magazines and Web video shows, marketers say Yahoo still lacks the popular appeal with consumers, said Greg March, CEO of ad agency Ikon3.
"I don't know if I would be forward betting any of these moves," March said. "They all feel like "could-be's" for brands. Not big money bets."
For the second quarter, Yahoo reported a profit of $272.6 million, or 26 cents a share, down from $335 million, or 30 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding certain costs, per-share earnings rose to 37 cents from 35 cents.
Total revenue fell 4% to $1.08 billion. Including traffic-acquisition costs, revenue was $1.04 billion.
Analysts, on average, were expecting earnings of 38 cents a share on revenue, excluding commissions, of $1.08 billion.
Investors are hungry for any clues that Ms. Mayer and her finance chief, Ken Goldman, might give on the analyst call at 5 p.m. ET about the cash proceeds Yahoo stands to receive from Alibaba's IPO. Analysts expect a windfall of close to $10 billion, which could be returned to shareholders through a buyback or dividend or spent on large acquisitions such as AOL Inc.
In the earning news release, Mr. Goldman said, "We are pleased to announce today that we have entered into an amendment to the share repurchase agreement with Alibaba, reducing the number of shares that Yahoo is required to sell at the IPO from 208 million shares to 140 million shares.
"In addition, we are aware that there has been much discussion around the allocation of the Alibaba IPO proceeds," he added. "We would like to take this opportunity to let our investors know that we are committed to return at least half of the after-tax IPO proceeds to shareholders, in line with our overarching commitment to maximizing shareholder value through prudent capital allocation."
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014071106:54
SYMBOL = KFX
Kofax shares slide after revenue warning
Kofax Ltd. KFX shares slid nearly 18% Friday after it said its fiscal 2014 earnings will be below expectations due to the delay in license revenue transactions.
The Nasdaq and London-listed business software provider expects non-IFRS software license revenue in the range of $122.5 million to $124.5 million; total revenue of $295.0 million to $298.0 million; and adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $41.0 million to $43.0 million for the fiscal ended June 30.
"We're disappointed with these results, which reflect software license revenue, total revenue and adjusted Ebitda levels below the guidance previously provided to the financial community, Reynolds C. Bish, chief executive said in a statement.
The company posted total revenue of $266.3 million and adjusted Ebitda of $46.3 million for the previous fiscal.
Kofax shares in London at 1028 GMT traded down 84 pence, or 17.6% at 390 pence, valuing the company at GBP359.3 million.
"These unexpected shortfalls are primarily attributable to several seven figure software license revenue transactions totaling $6.0 million slipping into future quarters during the last few days of our fourth quarter."
Kofax expects to close these transactions during the first and second quarters of the fiscal 2015, and remains confident in the company's business strategy.
"However, at this time I can confirm that we do not anticipate any changes to the long-term financial model we've previously provided, which is based on software license revenue growth in the mid teens, total revenue growth in the low double digits and an adjusted Ebitda margin of 20% or greater," Mr Bish added.
The company will announce its full fiscal 2014 earnings on 2 September.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014070208:15
SYMBOL = KR
Kroger agrees to buy online vitamin maker Vitacost
Kroger Co. said it plans to buy Vitacost.com Inc., an online seller of vitamins and other health-related products, in a deal that would give the largest U.S. supermarket chain a stronger presence in Internet retailing.
The $280 million planned purchase, which Kroger intends to announce on Wednesday, is small in financial terms for a company with $100 billion in annual sales. But Kroger expects the deal will enhance its technology expertise and give it a platform for fulfilling home delivery of online orders--an area of increasing importance for grocery chains amid burgeoning competition from companies like Amazon.com Inc. and FreshDirect.
Rodney McMullen, chief executive of Kroger, said in an interview that it plans to add some of its own natural and organic foods, sold under the Simple Truth brand, to Vitacost's website, which currently offers more than 45,000 products to about 2.3 million active customers. Kroger expects Simple Truth, which includes products from oatmeal to fresh ground beef, will hit $1 billion in sales this year.
"In terms of shipping to home, (Vitacost's) infrastructure is incredibly strong for that," Mr. McMullen said in an interview. "That's one of the reasons we are really excited about the merger."
Boca Raton, Fla.-based Vitacost was founded in 1994 as a catalog retailer and began shifting online five years later. The Nasdaq-listed company sells beauty products and natural and organic foods in addition to vitamins and supplements. Revenue in 2013 grew 16% to $382.7 million but it reported a net loss of $13.7 million, its fourth-straight year in the red.
In February, Consac LLC, a New York money manager that owned nearly 8% of Vitacost, publicly called on the company to pursue a sale. Vitacost responded at the time by saying that it had hired Jefferies LLC in December to help explore strategic alternatives.
"We are both extremely focused on the customer and we believe we will be able to leverage our solid e-commerce platform with Kroger's expansive reach," a spokeswoman for Vitacost said.
Kroger said it is paying $8 a share in cash for Vitacost under the terms of the deal, which it said both companies' boards have approved. That represents a 27% premium to Vitacost's closing price on Tuesday, when shares rose 0.3% to $6.28, and a 51% premium to the stock's price before Consac's letter was disclosed. The tender offer requires the approval of owners of a majority of Vitacost's shares outstanding. Kroger said holders of approximately 26.2% have agreed to support it so far.
Cincinnati-based Kroger, the nation's biggest pure-play grocery by sales and the second largest food retailer after Wal-Mart Stores Inc., has outperformed other supermarket chains, in part by lowering prices ahead of the recession and expanding its store-brand products faster than most rivals. Sales at Kroger stores open at least 15 months, called same-store sales, have grown every quarter for more than decade.
Kroger said for now it plans to limit home delivery to shelf-stable groceries, as fresh food requires a much more expensive process and few companies have figured out a way to make a profit selling it online and delivering it to homes.
"This accelerates where we are by a few years, much faster than if we went and tried to build it on our own," Mr. McMullen said.
Kroger employed a similar strategy with its recent acquisition of Harris Teeter for $2.44 billion. That deal gave it access to what's called click-and-collect technology, where people order online and pick up at the store. Kroger says that model has more potential for growth in fresh food sales. Kroger also is testing home delivery with its King Soopers stores in Denver, but that business isn't producing the kind of results that make it scalable to other stores yet, the company said.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014050107:26
SYMBOL = SNE
Sony warns of bigger annual loss on PC exit costs
Sony Corp. said Thursday it faces a bigger loss for the just-ended business year than previously expected, and slashed its operating profit outlook by two-thirds due to the costs of getting out of the money-losing personal computer business.
Analysts said Sony's third outlook cut in six months could drive away even the loyalists still believing in its promise to turn around its flagging consumer electronics business. The grim forecast also stands out from Japanese rivals in the electronics industry such as Panasonic Corp. and Fujitsu Ltd., which are returning to profit after withdrawing from unprofitable business areas.
"It is another major letdown," said Tomoichiro Kubota, a senior market analyst at online brokerage Matsui Securities Co. "The contrast is stark with Sony anticipating a bigger loss while other companies are starting to enjoy the fruits of their restructuring measures," he said.
Sony attributed the guidance cut to about Yen30 billion in extra costs to dispose of its personal computer business, and to impairment charges from weaker overseas demand for Blu-ray discs and DVDs.
In February, the company said it expects a Yen110 billion ($1.1 billion) loss to fix its loss-making PC and television businesses. Now, it expects a YenY130 billion loss for the year ended in March, even as it raised its revenue target by a slender 0.9%. As part of its restructuring measures, it earlier announced a cut of 5,000 jobs, the sale of its PC business and the split-off of its TV division into a separate subsidiary.
Sony also slashed its full-year operating profit forecast to Yen26 billion from Y80 billion, far below a forecast of Yen78.82 billion in a poll of 17 analysts by financial data provider Quick. It expects to book a Yen25 billion write-off related to its overseas disc manufacturing business.
Naoki Fujiwara, a fund manager at Shinkin Asset Management Co., said the latest revision may not be a major market shock since the company is bringing forward some of the restructuring charges that had been expected for the current fiscal year. Sony said the total restructuring costs of around $1.4 billion for the two years through March 2015 remain unchanged.
Still, analysts say the key question is whether Sony can come up with solutions to turn around or replace its consumer electronics division, which still generates about 70% of revenue.
Chief Executive Kazuo Hirai has said the company will focus on games, mobile devices and image sensors for future growth. But investors and analysts have been skeptical whether Sony can once again thrive as it did when hit products like Walkman portable music players and Trinitron TVs were in their heyday.
Sony recently said it would explore new growth areas and venture into the real-estate brokerage business--news that tipped its shares into a 3% slide as investors worried the company was straying further from its roots as an electronics maker.
"It is still unclear how they're going to create revenue going forward," said Yoshihiro Okumura, general manager at Chibagin Asset Management Co.
Sony plans to announce fourth-quarter earnings on May 14, and is expected to hold a business strategy briefing later this month.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015022223:02
SYMBOL = FOX
Fox denies merger talks with Discovery: report
21st Century Fox Inc. FOX, +0.36% FOXA, +0.18% has denied an earlier report that it had held initial talks for a possible purchase of cable operator Discovery Communications Inc. DISCA, +4.54% DISCB, -0.29% Reuters said Monday. A Fox spokesman said the talks, reported Monday in the Australian Financial Review, had "no truth" and that there were "not even any sort of talks," according to Reuters. The original Financial Review report had cited unnamed sources as saying discussions between the two companies were "nascent" and in "very, very early days." 21st Century Fox was part of MarketWatch parent News Corp. NWS, +1.38% until being spun off in 2013. Fox owns an eponymous television network and film studio, while Discovery's holdings including the Discovery Channel, TLC and Animal Planet.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021809:41
SYMBOL = JNJ
Boston Scientific to pay J&J $600 million to settle Guidant suit
Boston Scientific Corp. agreed to pay Johnson & Johnson $600 million to settle a long-running lawsuit related to the 2006 acquisition of heart-device maker Guidant Corp. for $27 billion.
J&J JNJ, -0.08%   had sought more than $7 billion in damages after accusing Guidant of breaching their merger agreement by going with a higher offer from Boston Scientific BSX, -0.97%
With the settlement announced Tuesday, J&J agreed to dismiss its lawsuit without any acknowledgment of liability by Guidant. Boston Scientific also agreed not to bring patent infringement or other claims related to certain J&J stent products.
Boston Scientific said it would include a charge of $600 million in its fourth-quarter results. Earlier this month, it reported fourth-quarter earnings of $87 million, or six cents a share, on revenue of $1.89 billion.
In an emailed statement, J&J said the agreement was reached after evidence in the Guidant case was presented at a trial and before the court rendered its decision. J&J added that, including a breakup fee paid by Guidant, it has received more than $1.3 billion in connection with the deal.
In 2006, Boston Scientific made a last-minute bid that snatched Guidant away from J&J.
J&J had worked 18 months to land Guidant, seeking an entree into the big market for devices that regulate errant heart rhythms. J&J provided an opening for Boston Scientific when it lowered its original offer after Guidant ran into product-quality problems. But with J&J’s bid standing at $24 billion, few expected much-smaller Boston Scientific to swoop in with a takeout offer.
While Boston Scientific outmaneuvered J&J in the takeover battle, the Marlborough, Mass., company has struggled with the heavy debt load caused by the deal and increased competition in the heart-device market, as well as the economic downturn that came after the acquisition.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021707:45 
SYMBOL = MDT
Metronic tops estimates on sales strength
Medtronic PLC posted better-than-expected results in its January quarter despite a hit from currency effects, in the last quarter before the medical-device maker closed on its $43 billion merger with Covidien PLC and reincorporated to Dublin.
The merger, combining two of the world's largest surgical-implant and hospital-supply companies, closed in late January after drawing scrutiny over a tax tactic criticized by U.S. government officials. The acquisition involved Medtronic reincorporating from Minneapolis to Ireland, lightening the company's tax burden.
For the fiscal third-quarter ended Jan. 23, Medtronic reported earnings of $977 million, up 28% from a year earlier. Per-share earnings were 98 cents a share, up 31% from a year ago.
Excluding items, per-share earnings were $1.01.
Revenue grew 3.7% to $4.32 billion. Excluding a $158 million negative impact from currency fluctuations, revenue was up 8%.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected 97 cents a share in earnings and $4.25 billion in revenue.
Medtronic said its U.S. revenue grew 8% to $2.46 billion, while international revenue fell 2%. Sales from emerging markets grew 6% in the quarter.
In its cardiac and vascular group, revenue grew 5%.
Medtronic's sales of implanted cardiac defibrillators, or ICDs, have been hurt recently by competitive pressure from Boston Scientific Corp. and St. Jude Medical Inc., rivals that have increased their market share with new product launches. Medtronic received U.S. regulatory approval in August for a new type of defibrillator that it says reduces side effects, and which analysts expect will help the company better compete against rivals.
Revenue in its restorative therapies group, which includes its spine and neuromodulation divisions, grew 2%.
For its current quarter, Metronic said it expects its revenue to grow 4% to 6% on a pro forma basis, excluding currency fluctuations.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021216:13
SYMBOL = CBS
CBS earnings come in slightly ahead of forecasts
CBS Corp. CBS, +0.29% on Thursday reported net income of $413 million, or 79 cents a share, compared with $470 million, or 76 cents a share, for the same period a year ago. Reporting after the close, the New York-based entertainment giant said revenue was $3.68 billion against last year's $3.57 billion. Net earnings came in 2 cents ahead of the forecast from analysts polled by FactSet, while adjusted income was 77 cents a share, a penny ahead of views. Revenue was expected to come in at $3.65 billion. Shares of CBS ended trading Thursday up 1.8% to $57.77.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021216:22
SYMBOL = KRFT
Kraft Foods misses fourth-quarter earnings expectations
Kraft Foods Group KRFT, -0.70% reported fourth-quarter earnings Thursday below expectations. The company reported a net loss of $398 million, or a loss of 68 cents per share after a profit of $931 million, or $1.56 per share, in the year-earlier period. Adjusted earnings were also a loss 68 cents per share, below the FactSet consensus of 73 cents. The company reported sales of $4.696 billion, up from $4.595 billion in the year-earlier period, and above the FactSet consensus of $4.625 billion.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021216:44
SYMBOL = CAG
ConAgra cuts 2015 earnings outlook, names new CEO
ConAgra Foods Inc. CAG, +0.03% cut its fiscal 2015 outlook and announced a new CEO. ConAgra shares fell as much as 6% after hours Thursday but climbed back to their closing price of $36.42 on moderate volume. The company, which owns such brands as Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Marie Callender's, and Orville Redenbacher's, now expects fiscal 2015 earnings of $2.13 to $2.18 a share because of a stronger dollar, weaker profitability from private brands, and an ongoing labor dispute that has slowed West Coast port traffic. Analysts surveyed by FactSet had estimated $2.25 a share. In a separate statement, ConAgra announced that Sean Connolly, former CEO of Hillshire Brands, will replace Gary Rodkin as CEO effective April 6.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021217:01
SYMBOL = CPB
Campbell Soup cuts guidance
Campbell Soup Co. lowered its outlook for the year ending in August based on its expectation that results in the final three quarters would be weaker than expected, partly due to foreign-currency translation.
Campbell, which makes its namesake brand soup and other popular brands such as Pepperidge Farm, Goldfish and V8, had previously warned that its sales growth for the year would likely fall below its long-term targets, and it may need to continue reshaping its portfolio to meet its goals. It had already lowered its outlook in November, pointing to currency volatility.
Companies across a range of industries have logged lower profits and sales in recent weeks, squeezed by the stronger U.S. dollar.
Meanwhile, Campbell, like other traditional packaged-food companies, has grappled for several years with sluggish sales of canned and boxed food that Americans are pushing aside for fresher options with fewer preservatives and additives.
The company said in January that it would reorganize into divisions based on product type instead of geography or brand, in the latest effort to turn around the classic food company amid tepid earnings growth.
For the year, the company projected earnings from continuing operations of $2.32 to $2.38, versus its previous call for $2.42 to $2.50, and estimated sales to be flat, plus or minus 1%. Excluding currency impacts, the company's sales guidance is unchanged.
And for the quarter ended Feb. 1, Campbell estimated per-share earnings of about 65 cents to 66 cents, with sales declining about 2%, reflecting negative currency impacts. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters projected earnings of 68 cents a share and a 2% sales decline to $2.24 billion.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021208:31
SYMBOL = EXPE
Expedia to buy Orbitz as online travel sector consolidates
Expedia Inc. agreed to buy Orbitz Worldwide Inc. for about $1.3 billion, further consolidating the online travel industry.
Orbitz OWW, +0.17%   shareholders will receive $12 a share in cash, a 25% premium over Wednesday’s close. Orbitz shares surged premarket to $11.84, while Expedia EXPE, +2.65%   shares edged up 4%.
Orbitz sells online travel services through its namesake site, as well as ebookers.com and CheapTickets.com, among others.
Expedia, for its part, has spent the past year buying brands in an effort to add new customers. The company in November closed a 703 million Australian dollars ($612 million) deal for Australia’s Wotif Holdings Ltd. In the U.S., the company recently agreed to buy Sabre Corp.’s Travelocity brand for $280 million.
The travel industry is under pressure from new players, including referral sites, such as Kayak and Hipmunk, that search multiple sites and startups that offer unpublished discounts and stays in apartments and spare rooms. Travel websites have responded by offering more discounts and loyalty programs.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021208:37
SYMBOL = TRIP
Shares of TripAdvisor Inc. TRIP, +0.10% climbed 15% in premarket trade Thursday despite a wave of cautiously optimistic notes from analysts. Analysts were mostly optimistic on the travel booking site's quarterly revenue growth but concerned about high costs and profitability. Pacific Crest maintained a sector perform rating on the stock. Cantor Fitzgerald maintained a hold rating but lowered its price target to $84. J.P. Morgan maintained a neutral rating and $75 target, while Raymond James reiterated a market perform rating but lowered estimates. TripAdvisor reported stronger-than-expected revenues late Wednesday and said it expected sales to grow in the high 20% range for fiscal 2015, however earnings per share fell slightly below expectations. Meanwhile, shares of rivals Expedia Inc. EXPE, +2.65% and Orbitz Worldwide Inc. OWW, +0.17% also soared in pre-market trade after Expedia said it would buy Orbitz for $1.6 billion. Shares of TripAdvisor were on track to open around $77.60, the highest open since Nov. 4.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021116:20
SYMBOL = CSCO
Cisco Systems rebound continues
Cisco Systems Inc. showed more signs of a rebound in its latest quarter, as demand for new hardware outweighed a headwind from currency exchange rates.
The big maker of networking equipment said revenues increased 7% in the second fiscal period, an improvement over the 1.3% growth Cisco reported for the first period. Net income rose 68%, despite costs associated with recent job cuts.
Shares of Cisco rose more than 1% in after-hours trading as results topped analyst estimates.
The San Jose, Calif., company is considered a proxy for demand by companies for high-tech hardware, often feeling the effects of spending shifts sooner than its peers. Cisco shares are up nearly 20% from a mid-October trough on investor sentiment that recent growth problems are easing.
Cisco has benefited from demand for a refreshed product line of switching equipment, the company's largest single product segment. At the same time, the company has struggled with reduced purchasing by telecommunications carriers and from customers in China, where suspicions about foreign technology vendors have lately run high.
The company, like some other long-established technology vendors, has been laying off some workers while hiring others with new skills--triggering restructuring charges while expected to keep Cisco's head count fairly flat. Cisco announced plans in August to cut about 6,000 jobs.
Including charges, Cisco said net income for the period ended Jan. 24 rose to $2.4 billion, or 46 cents a share, compared with profit in the year-earlier period of $1.43 billion, or 27 cents a share. Revenues rose to $11.94 billion from $11.16 billion.
On an adjusted basis that excludes certain one-time items, Cisco said per-share earnings rose to 53 cents from 47 cents. Analysts on that basis had expected earnings per share of 51 cents on revenue of $11.8 billion.
In addition, Cisco increased its quarterly dividend to 21 cents from 19 cents.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021116:26
SYMBOL = UPS
UPS raises dividend by 9%
United Parcel Service UPS, -0.19% raised its quarterly dividend to 73 cents a share, up 9% from the previous dividend of 67 cents. The new dividend is payable on March 10 to shareholders of record as of Feb. 23. Based on Wednesday's closing price of $100.91, the new annual dividend of $2.92 a share represents a 2.9% yield, compared with a current 2% yield for the S&P 500. The stock, which edged up 0.2% in after-hours trade, has declined 7.2% over the past three months, while the S&P 500 has gained 1.4%
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021208:23
SYMBOL = AXP
American Express says Costco pact to end next year
American Express Co. said its merchant agreement with Costco Wholesale Corp. will end next year, amid reports that the bulk retailer is negotiating with other credit-card companies.
American Express AXP, +0.59%   has been the only credit card accepted at Costco’s COST, +0.58%   U.S. stores.
“Taking a very disciplined approach, we began discussions on a possible renewal with Costco well in advance of the contract expiration. However, we were unable to reach terms that would have made economic sense for our company and shareholders,” Kenneth I. Chenault, chairman and chief executive of American Express, said in a news release.
The card company said the pact would end March 31, 2016. Shares of American Express fell 2.5% in premarket trading to $83.90.
Media reports late last year indicated that Costco was negotiating with other credit-card companies, including Capital One Financial Corp and MasterCard Inc. The change already has occurred in Canada, where Costco last year replaced American Express with those other two card companies.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021208:19
SYMBOL = K
Kellogg Co. shares fall 2% after fourth quarter earnings below analyst expectations
Kellogg Co. K, +0.31% shares fell 2% in pre-trade Thursday after the company reported fourth- quarter earnings below expectations. The company reported a net loss of $293 million, or 82 cents per share, down from net income of $818 million, or $2.26 a share in the year-earlier period. The company reported adjusted earnings per share of 84 cents, below the FactSet consensus of 93 cents. The company reported sales of $3.51 billion, slightly up from $3.50 billion in the year-earlier period but below the FactSet consensus of $3.627 billion. Kelloggg said it sees its 2015 net sales unchanged compared to 2014.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021116:17
SYMBOL = NTAP
NetApp shares drop as results, outlook disappoint
 NetApp Inc. NTAP, +0.81% shares fell in the extended session Wednesday after the data storage company's quarterly results and outlook disappointed. NetApp shares dropped 6.2% to $37.31 on moderate volume. The company reported adjusted fiscal third-quarter earnings of 75 cents a share on revenue of $1.55 billion. Analysts surveyed by FactSet had estimated 77 cents a share on revenue of $1.61 billion. NetApp forecast adjusted fiscal fourth-quarter earnings of 70 cents to 75 cents a share on revenue of $1.55 billion to $1.65 billion. Analysts estimate 89 cents a share on revenue of $1.69 billion.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021116:35
SYMBOL = TSO
Tesoro shares fall after earnings; company raises dividend
Refiner Tesoro Corp. TSO, +1.20% on Wednesday said it earned $1.46 a share on earnings of $187 million in the fourth quarter, versus 4 cents a year ago and expectations of $1.45 a share, according to FactSet. Tesoro reported revenues of $8.45 billion, compared with $10.1 billion a year ago and expectations of $9 billion. The refiner also increased its quarterly dividend by 40% to 42.5 cents a share. Shares of the San Antonio, Texas-based company fell 2.1% in after-hours trading after ending the regular session 0.9% lower.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021117:51
SYMBOL = BIDU
Baidu stock slides as outlook misses estimates
Baidu Inc. said its fourth-quarter revenue rose 48% as the China-based search engine benefited from stronger marketing revenue and added more customers.
The company's American depositary share fell 7.3% to $199.39 in recent after-hours trading as the company's sales guidance for the current quarter missed Wall Street views.
In the latest period, revenue totaled 14.05 billion yuan ($2.26 billion), in line with the company's expectations for 13.85 billion yuan to 14.25 billion.
For the current quarter, Baidu forecast revenue of 12.645 billion yuan to 13.065 billion yuan. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected 13.62 billion yuan.
Baidu, which generates the bulk of its revenue from search advertising, has been spending heavily to migrate its desktop search advertising prowess to mobile devices. The company has also invested in other ways--such as gaming--to contend in the rapidly growing mobile market in China.
In the latest period, online marketing revenue rose 46% to 13.85 billion yuan. The number of active online marketing customers rose 16% to 523,000. Revenue per online marketing customer increased 26%.
Overall, Baidu reported a profit of 3.23 billion Chinese yuan, or 9.01 an American depositary share, up from $2.78 billion yuan, or 7.90 yuan an ADS, a year earlier. Excluding stock-based compensation and other items, earnings were 9.97 yuan an ADS. Analysts expected profit of 9.95 yuan an ADS.
In the fourth quarter, traffic acquisition cost was equal to about 13.4% of revenue, compared with 12.3% a year earlier.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021208:15
SYMBOL = DPS
Dr. Pepper beats sales, matches profit forecasts
Dr. Pepper Snapple Group Inc. DPS, +0.04% reported fourth-quarter net earnings that fell to $150 million, or 77 cents a share, from $156 million, or 78 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Excluding non-recurring items, adjusted per-share earnings were 88 cents, matching the FactSet consensus estimate. Revenue rose 3% to $1.51 billion from $1.46 billion, above the FactSet consensus of $1.47 billion, as BCS volume increased 2%. For 2015, the beverage company expects adjusted per-share earnings in the range of $3.80 to $3.88, below analyst forecasts of $3.91. The stock was little changed in premarket trade. It has run up 14% over the past three months, while the S&P 500 has gained 1.5%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021206:53
SYMBOL = TIME
Time Inc. misses profit, sales expectations
Time Inc., the publisher of such magazines as People, Sports Illustrated and Real Simple, posted a downbeat sales outlook for the year, as falling newsstand revenues and circulation led to weaker-than-expected results in the fourth quarter.
For the full year, the company expects revenues to drop 3% to 6%, below analyst expectations of a 2% decline.
Time, like other traditional print magazine companies, is broadening its digital operations amid declining newsstand revenues--off 12% for the fourth quarter--and declining subscription revenue, which fell 7%. Generating advertising revenue also has become more of a challenge for the industry at large.
The company has been trying to restructure and in the December quarter initiated a restructuring plan that involved a $28 million pretax charge.
"We have made significant progress toward the transformation of the cost structure," said Chief Executive Joe Ripp.
Overall, Time reported a fourth-quarter profit of $145 million, or $1.32 cents a share, up from $66 million, or 61 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding special items, per-share earnings fell to 73 cents a share from $1.02 a share in the prior-year period.
Revenue fell 7% to $895 million.
Analysts had projected 78 cents a share in earnings and $904 million in revenue, according to Thomson Reuters.
The company said general advertising revenues fell 8% to $496 million. Print and other advertising revenue fell 10%, while its digital-advertising revenue rose 2% to $87 million. Circulation revenue declined 8% to $288 million.
Shares of Time, inactive premarket, have been up about 2% this year through Wednesday's close.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021217:34
SYMBOL = CBS
CBS earnings come in slightly ahead of forecasts
CBS Corp. CBS, +0.29% on Thursday reported net income of $413 million, or 79 cents a share, compared with $470 million, or 76 cents a share, for the same period a year ago. Reporting after the close, the New York-based entertainment giant said revenue was $3.68 billion against last year's $3.57 billion. Net earnings came in 2 cents ahead of the forecast from analysts polled by FactSet, while adjusted income was 77 cents a share, a penny ahead of views. Revenue was expected to come in at $3.65 billion. Shares of CBS ended trading Thursday up 1.8% to $57.77.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021207:58
SYMBOL = AVP
Avon losses widen, sales hurt by strong dollar
Avon Products Inc. on Thursday warned that the stronger dollar would likely have a significant effect on sales this year and contributed to its weaker-than-expected December quarter.
The beauty-products company said it sees revenue in 2015 declining because currency issues will hurt its revenue by 12 percentage points, based on January rates. In constant dollars, Avon sees revenue rising modestly.
Analysts had forecast a 9% sales drop.
Chief Executive Sheri McCoy said that "progress against our financial goals in 2014 was slower" than she would have liked, and added that the company is trying to mitigate the effects of foreign exchange.
However, in constant dollars, Avon saw growth in several segments, and the average order increased 9%. In the December quarter, beauty sales declined 14% but increased 4% in constant dollars, while fashion and home sales dropped 13% but grew 1% in constant dollars. Active representatives were down 4%. Volume fell 3%.
Regional sales fell across the board, dropping 15% in Latin America, 11% in EMEA, 12% in North America and 2% in Asia Pacific. This was partially offset by inflationary pricing in Latin America and new strength in Brazil, a previously soft country.
In all, Avon posted a loss of $331 million, or 75 cents a share, wider than its year-ago loss of $69 million, or 16 cents a share. Excluding special items such as restructuring costs, per-share earnings fell to 20 cents from 34 cents in the year-earlier period.
Foreign exchange rates cut earnings by about 22 cents a share.
Revenue decreased 12% to $2.34 billion, though it was up 5% in constant dollars.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected earnings of 25 cents a share on revenue of $2.36 billion.
Earlier this month, rival Coty Inc. said growth in its Sally Hansen and Rimmel brands helped earnings rise more than expected, while Elizabeth Arden Inc. missed expectations, primarily on falling fragrance sales.
Access Investor Kit for Avon Products, Inc.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021207:52
SYMBOL = HSP
Hospira profit beats on strength in injectables
Hospira Inc. posted better-than-expected earnings in its fourth quarter on strong sales of injectable drugs, just a week after agreeing to be bought by Pfizer Inc. for $16 billion.
Hospira is among the leading companies selling injectable drugs and biosimilars. The deal will give Pfizer, which has been trying to build up its own businesses in those areas, the opportunity to expand and take leading positions in fast-growing markets.
The deal comes as Hospira is facing challenges to a key business. Over the past couple of years, manufacturers of injectable drugs have benefited from product shortages that made it possible to raise prices. The shortages were often attributed to tougher inspections by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, but these typically take about two years to resolve, suggesting the latest cycle of price increases may be nearing an end.
Overall, for the quarter ended Dec. 31, Hospira reported a profit of $35.8 million, or 21 cents a share, up from $33.5 million, or 20 cent a share, a year before.
Excluding restructuring charges and other items, earnings were 53 cents a share.
Sales climbed 3.9% to $1.13 billion. Excluding currency impacts, sales were up 6.2%, boosted by strong sales of specialty injectables in the U.S. and favorable pricing.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected a per-share profit of 42 cents and revenue of $1.13 billion.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021716:19
SYMBOL = FOSL
Fossil shares down 13% after earnings miss
Fossil Group FOSL, +1.10% shares were down 13% in after hours Tuesday after the company missed fourth-quarter profit and sales expectations. Fossil reported net income of $154.1 million, or $3.01 per share, up from $148.5, or $2.69 a share, in the year-earlier period. The company reported adjusted earnings per share of $3.00, below the FactSet consensus of $3.07. Fossil reported sales of $1.065 billion, above $1.062 billion in the year-earlier period but below the FactSet consensus of $1.119 billion. For 2015, the company said it expected adjusted earnings per share between $5.45 cents to $6.05 cents and sales to decrease by 1% to 3%. Fossil also announced Tuesday a global licensing pact with Kate Spade watches.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021716:31
SYMBOL = BSX
Boston Scientific settles J&J lawsuit over Guidant
Boston Scientific Corp. BSX, -0.97% said after the close Tuesday that it had reached a $600 million settlement with health-care behemoth Johnson & Johnson JNJ, -0.08% over the deal in which the former Guidant Corp. was acquired nearly a decade ago. J&J had tried to acquire Guidant in 2004, but that deal later was nixed when J&J lowered its bid and Boston Scientific followed up with a higher offer. J&J had sued when Guidant allowed due diligence to be done on a portion of its business during negotiations, which J&J contended was a violation of its merger pact. J&J had sought more than $7 billion in damages. Boston Scientific shares jumped after the close by more than 8% to $16.09.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021717:11
SYMBOL = PERY
Perry Ellis cuts outlook on port delays
Perry Ellis International Inc. cut its guidance for its business year ended January and provided an outlook for the current year that missed Wall Street expectations, citing impacts from West Coast port disruptions.
Shares fell 12% to $21 in recent after-hours trading.
The apparel company said the port disruptions resulted in shipments initially intended for its fourth quarter to come in too late, causing a lag of more than two weeks in deliveries to customers. Perry stated that despite a solid order base, it was unable to fill $23 million in sales orders as a result of the delays before the quarter's end. Though the company has since delivered the goods in question, like many other companies, it anticipates potential continued disruptions in shipments and higher costs associated with continued port delays.
For the year, Perry Ellis lowered its per-share earnings estimate to 50 cents to 53 cents and revenue to $890 million, from its previous estimate for per-share profit of 85 cents to 95 cents and revenue of $910 million to $920 million. The guidance includes a net eight cents a share impact from the port disruptions and negative currency impacts, Perry said in a news release.
For the year ending in January of 2016, the company forecast revenue of $925 million to $935 million, below estimates of analysts polled by Thomson Reuters of $955 million.
The company expects to release its results the week of March 30.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021716:15
SYMBOL = PBPB
Potbelly shares surge after quarterly results top Street view
Potbelly Corp. PBPB, -4.69% shares climbed in the extended session Tuesday after the sandwich chain's quarterly results topped Wall Street estimates. Shares of Potbelly surged 9.2% to $15.50 on moderate volume. The company reported adjusted fourth-quarter earnings of 6 cents a share on revenue of $84.8 million. Analysts surveyed by FactSet had estimated 3 cents a share on revenue of $83.3 million. The company forecast adjusted net income growth of "at least 20%" in 2015.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021716:26
SYMBOL = LZB
La-Z-Boy misses sales forecast despite retail store push
Shares of La-Z-Boy Inc. LZB, -0.20% turned red in after-hours trade Tuesday after the furniture company reported weaker-than-expected third-quarter earnings and sales despite an 11.9% increase in retail sales. The company reported net income of $17.9 million, or 34 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier profit of $16.4 million, or 31 cents. Excluding one-time items, La-Z-Boy said it earned 33 cents, below the 38-cent estimate by analysts in a FactSet poll. Revenue for the period was $357.9 million, up from $346.5 million last year, but short of the $368 million consensus estimate. Shares of La-Z-Boy fell 3.8% afterhours. Despite the quarterly miss, the company said it remains encouraged by business opportunities and believes it will be able to capture a greater market share as it builds its brick-and-mortar base in North America.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021708:04
SYMBOL = WM
Waste Management swings to profit, ups outlook
Waste Management Inc. offered upbeat guidance for 2015 as the company swung to a profit from a year-earlier loss.
The company's earnings exceeded analysts' expectations, while revenue missed them.
Waste Management said it expected to post $2.48 to $2.55 a share in earnings this year. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had projected $2.48 a share.
The waste hauler and recycler said its board had authorized a $1 billion share buyback. Additionally, it expects to start its repurchases once it determines how much of the proceeds will be applied to acquisitions, meaning it will start buying shares in the market in the second half of the year.
Waste Management, which has cut costs and shed assets, will also continue to pursue its cost and pricing strategies in 2015, which Chief Executive David P. Steiner dubbed "a transition year."
The company said its top line in the most recent quarter would have grown were it not for the negative impact of a stronger U.S. dollar and certain divestitures. Waste Management agreed in July to sell its Wheelabrator Technologies Inc. business to Energy Capital Partners for $1.94 billion.
For the most recent quarter, the company posted earnings of $590 million, or $1.28 a share, compared with a loss of $605 million, or $1.29 a share, in the same quarter a year earlier. Excluding a gain on a business-unit sale and asset impairments, earnings rose to 67 cents a share from 56 cents a share.
Revenue fell 1.8% to $3.44 billion.
Analysts had projected earnings of 60 cents a share and revenue of $3.49 billion, according to Thomson Reuters.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021708:26
SYMBOL = GT
Goodyear Tire & Rubber reports huge profit jump
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. reported a huge jump in its fourth-quarter profit as a one-time tax credit offset currency fluctuations and lower tire sales in Europe where consumers delayed buying snow tires amid one of the warmest winters on record.
Chief Executive Richard Kramer said the company's 2015 operating profit will grow by another 10% to 15% as the tire maker uses its North American momentum to weather the severe headwinds from the increasing strength of the U.S. dollar.
Net income for the quarter was $2.13 billion, or $7.68 a share compared with $228 million or 84 cents a share for the same period a year earlier. The results include the release of a $2.2 billion U.S. tax valuation which represented a one-time, noncash benefit to earnings.
Excluding one-time benefits, the company earned $166 million, or 59 cents a share, which exceeded analyst estimates by a penny. Sales slipped to $4.36 billion from $4.79 billion a year earlier due to currency and lower tire sales volume in Europe.
Goodyear executives also confirmed the tire maker will launch its first-ever online buying site for the North America business. The site will allow consumers to go online and buy tires which will then be installed locally at a Goodyear retailer of their choice. The site--Goodyear.com--will go live later this year.
North America's operating profit rose to $229 million even as sales slipped to $2.11 billion from $2.13 billion a year earlier. The improvement came from lower raw material and pension costs.
The Europe, Middle East and Africa operating profit was sliced by more than half to $30 million as sales dropped to $1.31 billion. Sales reflect a 12% decrease in the number of tires sold, unfavorable foreign currency translation and the sale of lower priced tires.
The Latin America unit's operating profit was also cut in half to $20 million as sales dropped to $434 million. Rounding out the divisions, Asia Pacific's operating profit increased to $80 million although sales fell to $511 million.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021708:13
SYMBOL = AAPL
Apple orders more than 5 million watches for initial run
Apple has asked its suppliers in Asia to make a combined five to six million units of its three Apple Watch models during the first quarter ahead of the product’s release in April, according to people familiar with the matter.
Half of the first-quarter production order is earmarked for the entry-level Apple Watch Sport model, while the mid-tied Apple Watch is expected to account for one-third of output, one of these people said.
Orders for Apple Watch Edition -- the high-end model featuring 18-karat gold casing -- are relatively small in the first quarter but Apple plans to start producing more than one million units per month in the second quarter, the person said. Analysts expect demand for the high-end watches to be strong in China where Apple’s AAPL, +2.71%   sales are booming.
Apple Watch Sport will start at $349. Apple hasn’t announced pricing for the other models, but Apple Watch Edition is expected to be among the most expensive products the company has ever sold, likely surpassing the $4,000 Mac Pro computer.
Apple sets production plans based on its forecast of demand for the new product. But Apple quickly adjusts these plans if sales are different than what it estimated. Suppliers say that Apple adjusts its so-called “plan of record” more often and more quickly than any other consumer-electronics company.
The orders are similar to early sales of Apple’s last major all-new product. Apple sold 7.5 million iPads in the six months after it arrived in April 2010.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021707:45
SYMBOL = MDT
Metronic tops estimates on sales strength
Medtronic PLC posted better-than-expected results in its January quarter despite a hit from currency effects, in the last quarter before the medical-device maker closed on its $43 billion merger with Covidien PLC and reincorporated to Dublin.
The merger, combining two of the world's largest surgical-implant and hospital-supply companies, closed in late January after drawing scrutiny over a tax tactic criticized by U.S. government officials. The acquisition involved Medtronic reincorporating from Minneapolis to Ireland, lightening the company's tax burden.
For the fiscal third-quarter ended Jan. 23, Medtronic reported earnings of $977 million, up 28% from a year earlier. Per-share earnings were 98 cents a share, up 31% from a year ago.
Excluding items, per-share earnings were $1.01.
Revenue grew 3.7% to $4.32 billion. Excluding a $158 million negative impact from currency fluctuations, revenue was up 8%.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected 97 cents a share in earnings and $4.25 billion in revenue.
Medtronic said its U.S. revenue grew 8% to $2.46 billion, while international revenue fell 2%. Sales from emerging markets grew 6% in the quarter.
In its cardiac and vascular group, revenue grew 5%.
Medtronic's sales of implanted cardiac defibrillators, or ICDs, have been hurt recently by competitive pressure from Boston Scientific Corp. and St. Jude Medical Inc., rivals that have increased their market share with new product launches. Medtronic received U.S. regulatory approval in August for a new type of defibrillator that it says reduces side effects, and which analysts expect will help the company better compete against rivals.
Revenue in its restorative therapies group, which includes its spine and neuromodulation divisions, grew 2%.
For its current quarter, Metronic said it expects its revenue to grow 4% to 6% on a pro forma basis, excluding currency fluctuations.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021707:54
SYMBOL = RIG
Transocean’s CEO steps down abruptly
The chief executive of Transocean Ltd. stepped down abruptly over the weekend, a casualty of the plunge in oil prices and the deep-water drilling company’s ill-timed expansion.
In a statement Sunday, Transocean said Steven Newman was replaced on an interim basis by the company’s chairman, Ian Strachan.
The company also said it would ask shareholders to approve an 80% cut in its quarterly dividend to 15 cents from 75 cents a share, citing its “cyclical and capital-intensive industry.” Its annual meeting is set for May 15 in Switzerland, where it is based.
Under Newman’s leadership, Transocean RIG, -4.41% which says it owns the world’s biggest fleet of offshore drilling rigs, has spent billions of dollars over the past few years on new high-tech vessels. Some of its competitors did the same, leading analysts to warn of a glut of drilling capacity even before oil prices began to slide last summer.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021708:24
SYMBOL = MGM
MGM reports 4Q loss
MGM Resorts International (MGM) on Tuesday reported a loss of $342.3 million in its fourth quarter.
On a per-share basis, the Las Vegas-based company said it had a loss of 70 cents. Earnings, adjusted for pretax expenses and non-recurring costs, were 1 cent per share.
The results did not meet Wall Street expectations. The average estimate of analysts surveyed by Zacks Investment Research was for earnings of 6 cents per share.
The casino and resort operator posted revenue of $2.39 billion in the period, which also did not meet Street forecasts. Analysts expected $2.43 billion, according to Zacks.
For the year, the company reported that its loss narrowed to $149.9 million, or 31 cents per share. Revenue was reported as $10.1 million.
MGM shares have climbed slightly since the beginning of the year. The stock has dropped 18 percent in the last 12 months.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021705:13
SYMBOL = CMCSA
Cord Cutting, Comcast Deal Risks Cause Cable Stock Downgrades
MoffettNathanson analyst Craig Moffett on Tuesday cut his ratings on big cable sector stocks from “buy” to “neutral,” citing increased cord cutting risk, regulatory concerns about the planned Comcast acquisition of Time Warner Cable and a recent rally in stocks.
He cut his ratings on Comcast, TW Cable and Charter Communications and continues to have a “sell” rating on the stock of Cablevision Systems.
Read more WGA Chief: Why the Comcast-Time Warner Merger Is Bad for Content (Guest Column)
“With the stocks having largely achieved our target prices, with cord cutting risks mounting and with regulation clouding the path forward in broadband, it seems to us to be time to reduce exposure” to cable stocks, Moffett wrote in a report.
Discussing the planned Comcast-TW Cable deal, the analyst lowered his estimated probability of regulatory approval from 70 percent to 60 percent. “We still believe the deal is more likely than not to be approved, but we are cutting our probability of approval (again),” he wrote, citing “stiffening political headwinds.”
Discussing cord cutting risks, Moffett cited “those pesky clouds gathering around the health of the pay TV ecosystem.” He added: “Worsening viewership and advertising trends are driving programmers to break ranks both with each other and with their legacy distributors.” In the past, content companies have always looked to protect the existing pay TV system, but now over-the-top, or online-only, services are popping up, he said.
The FCC has said it wants to use Title II of the Communications Act to regulate wired and wireless Internet to settle a long-running debate about net neutrality. Comcast said it supports an open Internet but not Title II regulation.
Read more Wall Street's Entertainment Stock Picks for 2015: Disney, Fox, Time Warner
On that Title II regulation, Moffett said he was “far less sanguine” than investors seem to have been. “At its core, Title II is about price regulation,” he said. “It would be naive to believe that the imposition of a regime that is fundamentally about price regulation, in an industry that the FCC has now repeatedly declared to be non-competitive, wouldn’t introduce risk to future pricing power.”
All that taken together shows that the recent run-up in cable stocks means investors have “priced in an awful lot of good news and very little bad,” Moffett concluded.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021308:02
SYMBOL = ITT
ITT profit beats views, but warns of sales decline
ITT Corp. said growth in global oil-and-gas project pumps drove stronger-than-expected results in its fourth quarter, though it reported weakness in its motion-technologies segment and warned sales would be down this year.
Chief Executive Denise Ramos said ITT continues to face a difficult external environment with headwinds from the global oil-and-gas market and from foreign exchange.
For 2015, the company expects per-share earnings of about $2.55 to $2.65, with total revenue down 1% to 3%. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had called for earnings of $2.61 and sales to increase 1%.
The company manufactures components for markets such as energy infrastructure, electronics, aerospace and transportation. After spinning off its water and defense businesses in 2011, ITT has continued to realign its portfolio of businesses.
Industrial-process revenue jumped 15% in the fourth quarter, driven by growth in global oil-and-gas project pumps, as well as North American chemical and mining pumps. However, revenue in the motion-technologies segment--which designs braking technologies and shock absorbers--fell 13%, due to aftermarket restocking. However, the segment did see market gains in China.
Sales in the interconnect solutions segment fell 10%, as weakness in defense and nonstrategic connectors offset growth in the oil-and-gas connector segments.
In all, ITT reported a profit of $33.7 million, or 36 cents a share, up from $11.2 million, or 12 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding restructuring costs, tax-related adjustments and other items, earnings were 59 cents, up from 49 cents.
Revenue rose 2% to $660 million.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had predicted earnings of 57 cents on revenue of $648 million.
Shares of ITT have declined about 3% this year through Thursday's close.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021107:57
SYMBOL = AAPL
Apple stock gains after price target raised at J.P. Morgan
 Apple Inc.'s stock AAPL, +2.71% gained 0.3% in premarket trade Wednesday, after J.P. Morgan raised its price target and profit outlook on expectations of a strong Apple Watch release. Analyst Rod Hall's year-end target moves up to $145, or 19% above Tuesday's closing price of $122.02, from $140. He lifted his 2015 earnings-per-share estimate by 2.4% to $9.21 and his 2016 forecast by 10% to $10.50. Hall believes the base of users who own Apple Watch compatible models, such as the iPhone 5 or newer models, will be 400 million at the end of March 2015, rising to 525 million at the end of 2015 and to 627 million by the end of 2016. He expects 5% penetration of this user base in 2015 to 26.3 million units, and 13% penetration in 2016. The stock has run up 11% over the past three months, to become the first U.S. company to top $700 billion in market capitalization, while the S&P 500 has gained 1.4%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021107:11
SYMBOL = RAD
Rite Aid to buy TPG's EnvisionRx in deal valued at about $2 billion
Rite Aid Corp. RAD, +1.35% said Wednesday it has agreed to buy EnvisionRx, a pharmacy benefit manager that is a portfolio company of private-equity firm TPG, for about $2 billion. Rite Aid will pay $1.8 billion in cash and another $200 million in stock, the company said in a statement. EnvisionRx is expected to have 2015 revenue of about $4 billion and EBITDA of $150 million to $160 million. The deal "meaningfully expands our health and wellness offerings, enhancing our ability to provide a higher level of care to the patients and communities we serve," Rite Aid Chief Executive John Standley said in the statement. The deal is expected to close by September, and to boost Rite Aid's EPS in the first full year after closing. Shares were not yet active in premarket trade, but have gained 37.3% in the last three months, while the S&P 500 has gained 1.4%
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021016:18
SYMBOL = AKAM
Akamai Technologies' beats profit, sales expectations
Akamai Technologies AKAM, -1.93% reported a fourth-quarter net profit that rose to $97.1 million, or 54 cents a share, from $91.2 million, or 50 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Excluding non-recurring items, adjusted earnings per share were 70 cents, beating the FactSet consensus analyst estimate of 63 cents. The cloud services company said revenue rose 23% to $536 million, above analyst forecasts of $526 million, with particular strength in its security and media businesses. The company said if the negative effects of currency moves were factored out, revenue would have increased 25%. The stock eased 0.2% in after-hours trade. It has gained 1.9% over the past three months through Tuesday's close, slightly better than the S&P 500's 1.4% rise.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021018:56
SYMBOL = GNW
Genworth reports loss on charges
Genworth Financial Inc. GNW, -1.00% ended the year in the red as the insurer recorded large charges in the areas of long-term-care insurance and life insurance.
Long-term-care insurance reserves were increased by $729 million pretax and $474 million after-tax, following a review tied to underpricing of long-term-care insurance claims.
Shares closed down 0.9% Tuesday but were recently up 6% to $8.29 in after-hours trading.
Analysts had zeroed in on the company's reserves after it recorded in November a $531 million charge--$345 million after tax--tied to underpricing of long-term-care insurance claims on which policyholders are already receiving payouts.
Standard Poor's Ratings Services subsequently cut the company's rating to junk, citing concerns over the company's long-term-care insurance business.
Genworth is a long-time market leader in sales of long-term-care insurance, which helps pay for nursing-home and home-based health care.
Sales took off in the 1990s as a way to pay for high-quality assisted-living facilities, rather than relying on state and federal Medicaid programs. With rapidly rising medical costs and policyholders living longer, many insurers have since exited the market and taken large charges to boost reserves.
On Tuesday, Genworth said it was restructuring operations, targeting $100 million in savings before taxes over the next two years. Genworth said it had recognized $108 million in tax benefits in the quarter related to an internal debt restructuring in connection to its planned sale of its lifestyle protection insurance business.
Overall, Genworth reported a loss of $760 million, or $1.53 a share, compared with a year-earlier profit of $208 million, or 42 cents a share. On an operating basis, which excludes certain one-time items, the company reported a loss of 84 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier profit of 38 cents a share.
Revenue edged up 0.5% to $2.42 billion.
Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters expected a loss of 13 cents a share on revenue of $2.41 billion.
Through Tuesday's closing, Genworth's stock had fallen 49% over the past 12 months.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021108:22
SYMBOL = MDLZ
Mondelez's stock rallies after profit beats expectations
Shares of Mondelez International Inc. MDLZ, +0.07% rose 1.9% in premarket trade after the snacks giant beat fourth-quarter profit expectations. The company, which owns brands such as Oreo, Cadbury and Trident, said earnings fell to $500 million, or 29 cents a share, from $1.77 billion, or $1 a share, from the year-earlier period. Excluding non-recurring items, such as one-time spinoff, pension and restructuring costs, adjusted per-share earnings were 47 cents, above the FactSet consensus estimate of 43 cents. Revenue fell 6.9% to $8.83 billion from $9.49 billion, compared with the FactSet consensus of $8.98 billion, weighed by the negative effects of currency movements. For 2015, the company expects revenue growth excluding currency effects of 2%. The stock has declined 5.2% over the past three months through Tuesday, while the S&P 500 has gained 1.4%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021016:09
SYMBOL = FSLR
First Solar Inc. FSLR, +1.26% said Tuesday Apple Inc. AAPL, +2.71% has committed $848 million to get 130 megawatts of electricity from First Solar's California Flats solar project in Monterey County, Calif. Apple will enter a 25-year power purchase agreement, the largest in the industry providing renewable energy to a commercial user, First Solar said. Construction of the 2,900-acre project is expected to start mid-year, to be completed by the end of 2016. The remaining output of 150 mw will be sold to Pacific Gas & Electric under a separate long-term agreement. First Solar shares rose 4.8% on Tuesday, and were recently up 0.5% in after-hours trading.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021116:39
SYMBOL = AMAT
Applied Materials outlook disappoints
Applied Materials Inc. said its profit rose 38% as revenue increased 8% in the quarter ending in January, but gave a disappointing forecast for earnings in the current quarter.
Applied Materials, based in Santa Clara, Calif., has a broad product line of machines used in processing silicon wafers to make computer chips. Applied also sells equipment used in making LCD displays and solar panels.
The company's results often swing widely as chip makers react to demand by building or cutting production capacity.
Applied Materials expects earnings, excluding items, of 26 cents to 30 cents a share for the current quarter. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters project 32 cents a share.
The company expects sales will range from flat to up "a couple of percentage points" from the $2.36 billion reported for the latest period. Analysts project $2.48 billion.
In September 2013, Applied announced plans to buy rival Tokyo Electron Ltd. in a deal valued at around $9.3 billion, which will create a company called Eteris. The transaction is still being reviewed by regulators, and Applied said in October it may close later than expected.
The Wall Street Journal reported in December that the deal was awaiting approval from the U.S., China, Japan, Korea and Taiwan. Applied Materials said Jan. 23 that the parties are "actively engaged with regulators."
Christian Keller, a former Applied Materials employee, was one of four people the Securities and Exchange Commission charged last week with alleged insider trading. The four paid more than $1.6 million combined to settle the charges, the SEC said.
For the period that ended Jan. 25, Applied reported net income of $348 million, or 28 cents a share, up from $253 million, or 21 cents a share, a year earlier.
Excluding acquisition-related charges and other items, Applied earned 27 cents a share.
The company had projected earnings excluding items of 25 cents to 29 cents. It had projected revenue to range from flat to up 5% from October-quarter revenue of $2.26 billion.
Applied Materials shares fell 12 cents to $24.14 in recent after-hours trading.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021116:53
SYMBOL = NVDA
Nvidia's stock rallies after profit, sales beat
Nvidia Corp. said its earnings rose 31% as the chip maker posted better-than-expected revenue during the quarter ended January.
Shares rose 3.4% to $21.52 in recent after-hours trading as earnings, excluding certain items, topped Wall Street views.
The Santa Clara, Calif., company is best known for making components that help computers and videogame consoles generate visual effects. However, Nvidia has been introducing mobile products amid demand for tablets and hand-held game devices.
For the current quarter, the company forecast revenue of $1.16 billion, plus or minus 2%, implying a range between $1.14 billion and $1.18 billion. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected $1.15 billion.
For the period ended Jan. 25, Nvidia reported a profit of $193 million, or 35 cents a share, up from $147 million, or 25 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding stock-based compensation and other items, earnings rose to 43 cents from 32 cents. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected per-share profit of 29 cents.
Revenue increased 9.3% to $1.25 billion. The company had forecast revenue of $1.2 billion, plus or minus 2%, implying a range of between and $1.18 billion and $1.23 billion.
Gross margin rose to 55.9% % from 54.1%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021116:17
SYMBOL = NTAP
NetApp shares drop as results, outlook disappoint
NetApp Inc. NTAP, +0.81% shares fell in the extended session Wednesday after the data storage company's quarterly results and outlook disappointed. NetApp shares dropped 6.2% to $37.31 on moderate volume. The company reported adjusted fiscal third-quarter earnings of 75 cents a share on revenue of $1.55 billion. Analysts surveyed by FactSet had estimated 77 cents a share on revenue of $1.61 billion. NetApp forecast adjusted fiscal fourth-quarter earnings of 70 cents to 75 cents a share on revenue of $1.55 billion to $1.65 billion. Analysts estimate 89 cents a share on revenue of $1.69 billion.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021116:35
SYMBOL = ZU
Zulily shares plunge on earnings miss, outlook
Zulily Inc. ZU, -3.89% shares plunged in the extended session Wednesday after the online retailer's quarterly results and outlook fell below Wall Street estimates. Zulily shares dropped 17% to $16.50 on heavy volume. The company reported adjusted fourth-quarter earnings of 11 cents a share on revenue of $391.3 million. Analysts surveyed by FactSet had forecast 14 cents a share on revenue of $406.5 million. Zulily forecast first-quarter sales of $300 million to $320 million, while analysts are looking for $371 million.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021116:39
SYMBOL = TRIP
TripAdvisor's stock rallies after sales beat expectations
Shares of TripAdvisor Inc. TRIP, +0.10% ran up 7% in after-hours trade Wednesday, after the travel website beat fourth-quarter sales expectations, offsetting profit that fell a bit shy. Net earnings rose to $36 million, or 25 cents a share, from $20 million, or 14 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Excluding non-recurring items, per-share earnings were 35 cents, compared with the FactSet consensus analyst estimate of 37 cents. Revenue rose 35% to $288 million from $213 million, above the FactSet consensus of $285.1 million, as revenue from click-based advertising and display-based advertising topped expectations. The stock has lost 3.9% over the past three months through Wednesday's close, while the S&P 500 has gained 1.4%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021116:36
SYMBOL = WFM
Whole Foods profit up 5.7% on stronger revenue
Whole Foods Market Inc. said its earnings rose 5.7% as on stronger revenue as the natural- and organic-focused grocery chain attracted more customers to its stores the during the quarter ended January.
The company has struggled over the past year as mainstream supermarkets like Kroger Co. and retailer Wal-Mart Stores Inc. are selling more natural and organic foods and as other high-end supermarkets pop up nationwide.
In an effort to boost sales growth, Whole Foods has been reducing prices and adding technology initiatives like grocery delivery through Instacart and the company's acceptance of Apple Pay.
Co-Chief Executive Walter Robb said the latest results reflect an acceleration in comparable store-sales growth and healthy returns, which the company attributed to positive customers responses to its strategic initiatives, along with improving consumer confidence.
In the latest quarter, comparable-store sales, or sales at stores open at least year, rose 4.5%, slightly less than the pace of 4.6% the company cited in November.
For the period ended Jan. 18, Whole Foods reported a profit of $167 million, or 46 cents a share, up from $158 million, or 42 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue increased 10% to $4.67 billion.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected per-share profit of 45 cents and revenue of $4.67 billion.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021107:46
SYMBOL = PEP
PepsiCo profit, revenue fall as currencies weigh
PepsiCo Inc.'s revenue and profit fell in its fourth quarter as foreign-currency effects weighed, though results still came in above Wall Street expectations on continued strength in the company's Frito-Lay unit.
Pepsi said it plans to spend $8.5 billion to $9 billion on stock buybacks and dividends in 2015, including a 7.3% increase to its annual dividend.
Shares gained 2.9% in recent premarket trading.
Still, Pepsi warned that it expects foreign exchange to bring down both its revenue and per-share earnings by seven percentage points in 2015. Excluding currency and special items, Pepsi expects its per-share earnings to grow 7% and organic revenue to be up in the mid-single digits.
Pepsi has relied on its snack business lately to offset the impact of weaker demand for soda. Recent price increases, on top of cost cuts and growth in its emerging markets, have helped to offset the sluggish demand and foreign-exchange headwinds.
Meanwhile, Pepsi last month called a truce with activist shareholder Trian Fund Management, agreeing to add former H.J. Heinz Chairman William Johnson, an advisory partner to Trian, to its board. Trian had been pushing for the company to split up its beverage and snack businesses.
In the latest quarter, both beverage and snack volume grew 2%. Pepsi's carbonated soft drink volume in the key North American market fell 2% in the quarter, while noncarbonated volumes grew 4%.
For the period ended Dec. 27, Pepsi reported a profit of $1.31 billion, down from $1.74 billion a year earlier. On a per-share basis, earnings fell to 87 cents from $1.12 a year earlier. Excluding restructuring charges and other items, earnings were $1.12 a share.
Revenue fell 1% to $19.95 billion. Foreign exchange brought down revenue by six percentage points, the company said.
Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters had projected earnings of $1.08 a share and revenue of $19.66 billion.
At the Frito-Lay North America unit, revenue grew 3%, while revenue was up 1% at the PepsiCo Americas beverage unit. Revenue fell 2% at the Quaker Foods segment and was down 10% in Europe.
On Tuesday, rival Coca-Cola Co. said its fourth-quarter profit dropped 55%, pulled down by weakening foreign currencies and one-time charges, and warned that 2015 will be another challenging year.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 201502101637
SYMBOL = PIR
Pier 1 Imports' stock tumbles after lowered profit, sales outlook
 Shares of Pier 1 Imports Inc. PIR, +1.77% plunged 24% in after-hours trade, after the specialty home furnishings retailer slashed its profit and sales outlook for fiscal 2015 and said its chief financial officer was retiring. The company cut its earnings-per-share outlook for the fiscal year ending in February to a range of 80 cents to 83 cents from a previous estimate of 95 cents to $1.05, citing softer-than-expected sales in January and February. Analysts surveyed by FactSet were expecting EPS of $1. Same-store sales growth is now expected to be about 5%, compared with a previous growth outlook in the mid-to-high-single digit percentage range. "Following a strong holiday period, we registered respectable company comparable sales growth of 5.7% in January -- but the results were well below our forecast, which had overestimated the recapture of lost sales from last year's storms. This is also causing us to take a more cautious view of sales for February," said Chief Executive Alex Smith. The company also said Chief Financial Officer Charles Turner has retired, and will be replaced on an interim basis by Executive Vice President Laura Coffey. The stock had run up 27% over the past three months through Tuesday's close, while the S&P 500 had gained 1.4%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021016:18
SYMBOL = AKAM
Akamai Technologies' beats profit, sales expectations
Akamai Technologies AKAM, -0.96% reported a fourth-quarter net profit that rose to $97.1 million, or 54 cents a share, from $91.2 million, or 50 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Excluding non-recurring items, adjusted earnings per share were 70 cents, beating the FactSet consensus analyst estimate of 63 cents. The cloud services company said revenue rose 23% to $536 million, above analyst forecasts of $526 million, with particular strength in its security and media businesses. The company said if the negative effects of currency moves were factored out, revenue would have increased 25%. The stock eased 0.2% in after-hours trade. It has gained 1.9% over the past three months through Tuesday's close, slightly better than the S&P 500's 1.4% rise.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021107:55
SYMBOL = TWC
Time Warner revenue dips, raises dividend
Time Warner Inc. reported a 1% decline in December quarter revenue as declines at its Warner Bros. studio offset increases at its Home Box Office and Turner cable businesses.
Still, shares rose about 1% in premarket trading as the media company raised its dividend and provided 2015 per-share earnings guidance that straddled analyst estimates.
Time Warner has been cutting costs through large staff reduction across its businesses as it increases the company's focus on video content through its Warner Bros. film studio and cable channels such as HBO, TNT and CNN.
For the fourth quarter, Time Warner reported earnings of 718 million, or 84 cents a share, down from $983 million, or $1.06 a share. Excluding tax matters, programming charges at Turner, and restructuring and severance charges, among other items, the company said its adjusted per-share earnings would have been $1.14 a share.
Revenue fell to $7.53 billion from $7.6 billion.
Analysts, on average, were expecting earnings of 93 cents a share on revenue of $7.55 billion.
Warner Bros. revenue fell 5% to $3.8 billion mainly because of lower home-entertainment and videogame revenues. The current year period included the releases of "Edge of Tomorrow" and "Tammy," while the year-ago had "Man of Steel," "The Hangover Part III" and the videogame release of "Batman: Arkham Origins."
Turner revenue increased 2% to $2.6 billion because of revenue increases from subscriptions and content. Advertising revenue, though, fell 1% because of declines in audience and fewer Major League Baseball playoff games.
HBO revenue increased 6% to $1.3 billion on higher subscription and content revenue. HBO has announced it would begin to offer a stand-alone streaming service this year.
For 2015, Time Warner expects its per-share earnings, excluding certain costs, to be between $4.60 and $4.70. Analysts, on average, were expecting earnings of $4.66 a share.
Time Warner on Wednesday also raised its quarterly dividend by 10% to 35 cents.
Like other media companies, Time Warner has aggressively bought back stock in recent years, helping fuel per-share earnings growth. From the beginning of 2014 through Feb. 6, the company has repurchased about 80 million shares for about $5.8 billion. Since the company's third-quarter release, it has repurchased about 12 million shares for about $948 million.
As of Feb. 6, about $4.2 billion remained available for repurchases under the company's stock repurchase program.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021107:17
SYMBOL = CSC
Computer Sciences to restate 2010-2012 results
Computer Sciences Corp. disclosed Wednesday that it will restate financial statements as part of a proposed $190 million settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission over accounting issues from its 2009 to 2012 fiscal years.
Computer Sciences said it would restate its 2012 statements and its summary financial results for 2011 and 2010, erasing $130 million in previously-recorded operating profit.
The company previously said the SEC's probe, launched in January 2011, initially focused on accounting errors in its former managed services sector segment, mainly accounting irregularities in the Nordic region. The company's auditors eventually expanded the investigation to include CSC's operations in Australia, accounting practices within the company's Americas outsourcing operation, and those related to the company's contract with the U.K. National Health Service.
Computer Sciences said it has agreed to pay a penalty of $190 million and to implement a review of its compliance policies through an independent consultant. Computer Sciences has recorded a pretax charge of about $195 million for the penalty in its most recently-ended quarter.
The company said it would also shuffle a previous impairment charge to its correct year.
The restatement will reduce its fiscal 2010 net income by $50 million and its fiscal 2011 income by $3.69 billion. The change will increase its fiscal 2012 income by $3.9 billion.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021308:54
SYMBOL = ZNGA
Zynga's stock plunges, as disappointing results prompt price target cuts
Zynga Inc.'s stock ZNGA, -0.86% plunged 12% on heavy volume in premarket trade Friday, as a number of Wall Street analysts lowered their price targets in the wake of the social game developer's disappointing results and outlook. "We have limited transparency into the company's forward pipeline, and seemingly obvious potential hits like "FarmVille 2" for mobile have disappointed outlier performance expectations," analyst Mike Hickey from Benchmark wrote in a note to clients. He trimmed his target to $2.36 from $2.45. Canaccord Genuity's Michael Graham cut his target to $2.50 from $4, Credit Suisse's Stephen Ju lowered his target to $2.92 from $3.24 and Tony Wibble at Janney Capital Markets cut his target to $2.25 from $2.50. The stock has lost 44% over the past year through Thursday, while the S&P 500 has gained 14%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021307:15
SYMBOL = IPG
Interpublic's profit misses estimate while sales beat, dividend raised
Interpublic Group of Companies IPG, -0.71% reported on Friday a fourth-quarter net profit that rose to $308.9 million, or 73 cents a share, from $193.1 million, or 44 cents a share, in the same period a year ago. Excluding non-recurring items, adjusted per-share earnings were 57 cents, compared with the FactSet consensus analyst estimate of 58 cents. Revenue rose 4% to $2.21 billion from $2.12 billion, above the FactSet consensus of $2.18 billion. The advertising company raised its quarterly dividend by 26% to 12 cents a share from 9.5 cents a share, and authorized a new $300 million share buyback program. For 2015, the company said the currency and economic environment in Europe remained uncertain. It expectss revenue growth, excluding currency effects, of 3% to 4%. The stock was still inactive ahead of the open. It has rallied 9% over the past three months, outperforming the S&P 500's 2.4% gain.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021216:17
SYMBOL = AIG
AIG's operating income drops on charges
American International Group Inc., the big insurer that received--and repaid--one of the biggest bailout packages of the financial crisis, posted a sharply lower fourth-quarter profit, weighed down by its big workers' compensation business and a charge to retire some high-cost debt.
The global insurer reported quarterly net income of $655 million, a decline from $2 billion in the year-earlier period, while its closely watched operating profit declined to $1.37 billion from $1.67 billion a year earlier. Operating income excludes realized capital gains and losses in insurers' big investment portfolios and some other items.
The quarterly operating profit tallied 97 cents a share, down from $1.13 a share in the year-earlier period, and fell short of $1.05 a share projected by analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
Much of the miss came as AIG adjusted the reserves for workers' compensation claims to reflect the steep drop in interest rates last year. In addition, the company took a charge to reflect additions to reserves for other lines of business. Those move totaled $562 million, or 40 cents a share.
The results reflect the first full quarter at the helm of the global insurer for Peter Hancock, who took over as chief executive from Robert Benmosche on Sept. 1. Mr. Hancock will be on Friday morning's conference call from California, where he is participating in a White House summit on cybersecurity at Stanford University. AIG is a major seller in the burgeoning area of cyber-risk insurance.
Mr. Hancock has said he doesn't expect abrupt changes in strategy and objectives. But he has made one notable change: The company is now reporting its results under two overall operating segments--commercial insurance and consumer insurance--while scrapping its previous breakdown of results by type of insurance: primarily, property-casualty and life.
Under the new arrangement, the company will group commercial property-casualty insurance with mortgage guaranty insurance and the institutional-business side of its previous life-insurance and retirement-services unit. Its new consumer segment will include retirement products, and life, auto, home and other types of personal insurance.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021307:34
SYMBOL = SJM
J.M. Smucker warns of continued coffee challenge
J.M. Smucker Co. warned Friday that greater-than-expected weakness in its coffee segment would continue into the rest of the year, after having dragged down earnings in the January quarter.
The company anticipates a modest decrease in sales in the current quarter due to both its pending acquisition of Big Heart Pet Brands and weak coffee volumes. It warned that its earnings for the year ending in April are likely to be below the midpoint of its previous guidance range of $5.45 to $5.65 by about 3%, and coffee profit will fall by about 15%.
In the latest quarter, coffee remained the main challenge, though it was partially offset by volume growth in its retail segment and some higher pricing.
"In the near term, we expect results for the coffee segment to remain soft reflecting continued competitive dynamics, which we are addressing responsibly to ensure the long-term health of our brands," said Chief Executive Richard Smucker.
In the January quarter, the U.S. retail coffee segment posted a 1% sales decline, though 8% lower volume, primarily from the Folgers brand, was offset by higher price and good sales mix. Cafe Bustelo volumes improved by 5% and Dunkin' Donuts brands were flat. Packs of K-Cups, which are used in Keurig devices, experienced a 3% increase in volume and an 8% drop in sales.
Meanwhile, J.M. Smucker recently said it is adding Milk-Bone dog treats and Meow Mix cat food to its mix, with a $3.2 billion agreement to buy Big Heart Pet Brands that also marks a win for the smaller company's private-equity owners.
The deal gives Smucker, maker of Pillsbury baked goods and Folgers coffee as well as its namesake fruit spreads, a presence in the market for pet food and pet snacks. Under the deal, Smucker will pay 17.9 million shares and $1.3 billion for Big Heart. It also will take on Big Heart's $2.6 billion in debt, a balance-sheet hit that concerned some analysts.
However, the consumer foods segment saw volume grow 1%. Jif brand peanut butter volume grew 7%, though sales dropped by 4%. Volumes of Smucker's fruit spreads increased 2% while sales were flat. Profit for the segment increased 9% due to fewer marketing expenses, favorable mix and higher volume.
For the quarter ended Jan. 31, Smucker posted a profit of $161 million, or $1.58 a share, down from $167 million, or $1.59 a share, a year ago. Excluding items, earnings were $1.54 a share, down from $1.63.
Analysts had expected earnings of $1.51 a share.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021216:14
SYMBOL = CBS
CBS earnings come in slightly ahead of forecasts
CBS Corp. CBS, -0.02% on Thursday reported net income of $413 million, or 79 cents a share, compared with $470 million, or 76 cents a share, for the same period a year ago. Reporting after the close, the New York-based entertainment giant said revenue was $3.68 billion against last year's $3.57 billion. Net earnings came in 2 cents ahead of the forecast from analysts polled by FactSet, while adjusted income was 77 cents a share, a penny ahead of views. Revenue was expected to come in at $3.65 billion. Shares of CBS ended trading Thursday up 1.8% to $57.77.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021216:23
SYMBOL = GRPN
Groupon shares volatile after earnings beat, weak outlook
Groupon Inc. GRPN, -1.45% shares were volatile in the extended session after the online-deals company topped quarterly expectations and issued a somewhat weak outlook. Groupon shares rose 2% to $7.61 on heavy volume at last check, after falling as much as 8% right after the report. The company reported adjusted fourth-quarter earnings of 6 cents a share on revenue of $925.4 million. Analysts surveyed by FactSet had estimated 3 cents a share on revenue of $908.6 million. For the first quarter, Groupon said it expects break-even to 2-cents-a-share earnings on revenue of $790 million and $840 million. Analysts expect 2 cents a share on revenue of $856.5 million.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020607:41
SYMBOL = MSG
Madison Square Garden beats profit and sales expectations
Madison Square Garden MSG, -0.11% reported a fiscal second-quarter profit that rose to $61.2 million, or 78 cents a share, from $60.5 million, or 77 cents a share, in the same period a year ago. That beat the FactSet consensus analyst estimate of 74 cents a share. Revenue rose 7% to $542.5 million, above analyst forecasts of $521 million, as growth in MSG entertainment and MSG sports divisions offset a decline in its media division. Meanwhile, revenue in each of the three divisions exceeded analyst projections. Chief Executive Tad Smith said in a statement that the company is "continuing to explore the possible separation of our businesses and believe that the creation of two distinct publicly traded companies would provide both new entities with greater flexibility to pursue their own business plans, while enabling investors to evaluate more clearly each company's unique assets and potential." The stock, which was still inactive in premarket trade, has gained 2.1% over the past three months, while the S&P 500 has advanced 1.5%
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020606:56
SYMBOL = EBAY
EBay revises 2014 profit upward
EBay Inc. on Friday revised its 2014 earnings upward to reflect a lower income tax expense, helping swing the Internet commerce company's full-year results from a previously-reported loss to a profit.
EBay revised both its full-year results and its fourth-quarter results, which it reported in January, to reflect an $87 million reduction in income tax expense. EBay said it underestimated the tax benefit of an intercompany transaction that happened in December.
For the year ended Dec. 31, eBay posted a profit of $46 million, or four cents a share, up from the net loss of $41 million, or three cents a share, it reported in January.
For its fourth quarter, eBay revised its profit up to $1.02 billion, or 82 cents a share, up from $936 million, or 75 cents a share.
Last month, eBay reported a jump in net income in its fourth quarter, though sales growth came almost entirely from the PayPal and Enterprise units, not its initial online auction marketplace.
The company also unveiled plans to cut 2,400 jobs, add three board members and explore the sale or spinoff of its eBay Enterprise unit, which helps companies with their Web sales efforts, ahead of its planned breakup later this year.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020516:35
SYMBOL = P
Pandora shares tumble as sales, outlook disappoint
Pandora Media Inc. said the number of hours that listeners tune into its Internet radio service rose 15% during the fourth quarter, helping push its revenue up by a third.
Shares fell 21% to $14.60 in recent after-hours trading despite profit growth of 37% as revenue missed expectations and Pandora's outlook for the first quarter and 2015 missed Wall Street's views.
For the latest period, the Oakland, Calif., company reported revenue of $268 million, below company expectations for between $273 million and $278 million. Advertising revenue grew 36% to $220.1 million, while local advertising sales soared 90% to $49.9 million.
For 2015, Pandora forecast revenue of $1.15 billion to $1.17 billion, while analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected $1.21 billion. For the first quarter, the company forecast revenue of $220 million to $225 million, below analysts' expectations for $244 million.
Pandora's third-quarter financial results fueled concerns about a slowing pace of user growth as well as rising content costs.
During the latest quarter the number of listener hours rose to 5.2 billion from 4.54 billion a year earlier. The number of active listeners reached a total of 81.5 million at the end of 2014, an increase of 7% from a year earlier.
Overall, Pandora reported earnings of $12.3 million, or six cents a share, compared with a year-earlier profit of $9 million, or four cents. Excluding items such as stock based compensation, earnings were 18 cents. The company expected per-share earnings of 17 cents to 19 cents.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020519:53
SYMBOL = YELP
Yelp posts strong revenue increase
Yelp Inc. swung to a profit in the fourth quarter, as average monthly unique visitors rose 13% to about 135 million, a growth rate that was below that of its past few quarters.
The San Francisco consumer-review website said average monthly mobile unique visitors increased 37% to about 72 million, and said it will "look to drive mobile engagement" this year.
For the current quarter, Yelp expects revenue of $114 million to $116 million. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters project $115 million.
Yelp shares fell 9.7% to $51.90 in recent after-hours trading.
Yelp has been trying to expand its reach, launching websites in Chile and Hong Kong as well as a mobile service that allows users to translate reviews. During the fourth quarter, Yelp bought European review sites Restaurant-Kritik and Cityvox. Yelp now reaches 29 countries.
For the quarter ended Dec. 31, Yelp earned $32.7 million, or 42 cents a share, compared with a loss of $2.1 million, or three cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 55.5% to $109.9 million.
Excluding items such as a tax benefit and stock-based compensation, Yelp earned 24 cents a share.
Yelp had projected revenue between $107 million and $108 million.
For the full year, Yelp expects revenue of $538 million to $543 million, compared with Wall Street estimates of $538 million. Yelp projects $100 million to $103 million in adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020516:12
SYMBOL = EXPE
Expedia's stock falls after profit falls below expectations
Shares of Expedia Inc. EXPE, -1.60% slumped 3.8% in after-hours trade Thursday, after the online travel services company reported a surprise decline in fourth-quarter profit. For the quarter ended Dec. 31, net earnings fell to $66 million, or 50 cents a share, from $94.7 million, or 70 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Excluding non-recurring items, adjusted earnings per share slipped to 86 cents from 92 cents, while the FactSet consensus analyst estimate was for an increase to $1.01. Revenue increased 18% to $1.36 billion, matching analyst forecasts. Gross bookings grew 24%, with domestic booking rising 29%. The stock has gained 6% over the past three months through Thursday's close, while the S&P 500 has advanced 1.9%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020607:16
SYMBOL = GPRO
GoPro drops 12% after warning, COO steps down
Shares of GoPro Inc. GPRO, -6.07% sank 11% in premarket trading on Friday. The maker of wearable video cameras posted results that easily beat expectations late Thursday, but then warned on the upcoming quarter. GoPro said during its earnings call that it sees first-quarter earnings between 15 and 17 cents per share, against Wall Street expectations for earnings of 17 cents, according to Reuters and CNBC. As well, GoPro said Chief Operating Officer Nina Richardson has resigned effective Feb. 27. Shares swung wildly overnight, climbing on news of the results, only to subsequently fall sharply.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020519:50
SYMBOL = VRSN
VeriSign profit falls sharply
VeriSign Inc.'s fourth-quarter profit fell sharply as the Internet domain registrar and security company recorded tax charges, largely related to a repatriation of offshore assets.
Founded in 1995, the Reston, Va., company operates the registry for .com, .gov, .edu and other top-level domains along with two of the world's 13 Internet "root servers," which handle Internet traffic around the world.
Renewal rates for .com and .net was 72% in the quarter, compared with 72.7% a year earlier.
An additional 590,000 domains were registered during the quarter, compared with the company's projection of between 700,000 and 1.2 million.
Deferred revenue--money the company has already collected from customers but that it recognizes as revenue over time--rose to $890 million as of the end of the quarter, an increase of $35 million for the year-ago period.
Overall, VeriSign reported a profit of $65.5 million, or 48 cents a share, down from $292.1 million, or $1.94 a share, a year earlier. Excluding stock-based compensation and other items, profit rose to 70 cents from 65 cents a year earlier.
Revenue rose 4.19% to $255.9 million.
Gross margin improved to 81.4%, from 81% a year earlier, as expenses fell 1.5%.
The company's board has approved an increase of about $453 million to its share buyback program, bringing the total set aside to $1 billion. There is no expiration date.
Shares edged up to $56.98 in recent after-hours trading. Through Thursday's closing, the company's stock was up 2.58% over the past 12 months.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020607:16
SYMBOL = MCO
Moody's profit, sales rise above expectations
Moody's Corp. MCO, +0.10% reported on Friday a fourth-quarter profit of $236.3 million, or $1.12 a share, up from $206.7 million, or 94 cents a share, in the year-earlier period, and above the FactSet consensus of 95 cents a share. Revenue rose 13% to $877.5 million, as corporate finance revenue increased 8.5% to $263.3 million, exceeding analyst forecasts of $849 million and $257.1 million, respectively. The credit rating firm said unfavorable currency movements reduced revenue by 3%. For 2015, the Moody's expects earnings per share of $4.55 to $4.65, compared with analyst projections of $4.56. The stock, which was still inactive in premarket trade, has lost 5.8% over the past three months, while the S&P 500 has gained 1.5%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020607:02
SYMBOL = HRS
Harris says it will buy Exelis in deal valued at $4.4 billion
Harris Corp. on Friday said it agreed to buy Exelis Inc. in a cash-and-stock deal valued at about $4.4 billion, a little more than four months after Exelis spun off its government-services business.
The $23.75-a-share price tag represents a 34% premium over Exelis’ closing price Thursday. Exelis XLS, +0.14%  investors will receive about $16.63 in cash for each share, and the remainder will be in Harris HRS, +0.16%  stock. The deal has an enterprise value of $4.75 billion, the companies said.
After the acquisition closes, Harris shareholders will own about 85% of the combined company.
Harris said it expects to complete the acquisition in June, and that the deal will be slightly accretive to earnings in the first full year, with more significant contributions coming later.
Harris also said it expects pretax cost synergies of $100 million to $120 million, with the savings will come from consolidating the companies’ headquarters and eliminating other costs from operations.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020516:46
SYMBOL = LNKD
LinkedIn reports strong revenue gains
LinkedIn Corp. reported strong fourth-quarter revenue gains across segments as the social network continues to expand internationally.
The professional social network, which this month launched a localized version in simplified Chinese and traditional Chinese that has nearly doubled its Chinese member base to more than 8 million, said nearly 70% of total members come from outside the U.S.
Shares rose 6% to $252.49 in recent after-hours trading--topping the company's 52-week-high of $243.25 set on Dec. 19 during regular trading hours--as the results beat the company's modest guidance and even the more ambitious Wall Street consensus.
Last quarter, the professional social network projected revenue for the quarter between $600 million and $605 million, short of the $612 million consensus and a sharp contrast to its solid performance, above analysts' expectations, in recent quarters. Analysts have since raised their expectation to $616.8 million, according to Thomson Reuters.
The Mountainview, Calif., company--which went public in 2011 with an initial public offering of $45 a share--makes most of its money from job recruiting, premium subscriptions and advertising.
Analysts see great growth potential, particularly in advertising and its sales navigator, launched last year as a stand-alone offering, which gives consumers greater access to sales prospects along with automated recommendations.
LinkedIn said it expects to make 53 cents a share on revenue of $618 million to $622 million in the current quarter and $2.95 a share on revenue of $2.93 billion to $2.95 billion for the year. Analysts expect earnings of 55 cents a share on $645.7 million in revenue for the quarter and $2.73 a share on $2.94 billion in revenue for the year.
Overall, LinkedIn posted a profit of $3 million, or two cents a share, down from $3.8 million, or three cents a share. Excluding stock-based compensation and other items, profit rose to 61 cents from 39 cents a year earlier.
Revenue rose 44% to $643.4 million.
LinkedIn had projected profit of 49 cents a share on revenue between $600 million and $605 million, compared with the analysts' consensus of 53 cents a share on $616.8 million
The U.S. accounted for 60%, or $388 million, of total revenue with international markets accounting for 40% of total revenue. A year earlier, international revenue represented 39% of total revenue, to 61% coming from domestic markets.
LinkedIn derives more than half of its revenue from its field sales channel--64% in the latest period. Online, direct sales channel represented 36% of total revenue in the latest period, down from 39% a year earlier.
Through Thursday's closing, the company's stock had risen 11% over the past 12 months.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020516:20
SYMBOL = TWTR
Twitter shares rise after fourth-quarter results top Street view
Twitter Inc. TWTR, -0.19% shares rose in the extended session Thursday, following an initial drop, after the microblogging platform's fourth-quarter results topped Wall Street estimates. Twitter shares rose 2.5% to $42.30 on heavy volume in recent activity. The company reported adjusted fourth-quarter earnings of 12 cents a share on revenue of $479.1 million. Analysts surveyed by FactSet had estimated 6 cents a share on revenue of $453.8 million. Twitter said average monthly active users grew by 20% to 288 million in the fourth quarter. The company forecast revenue of $440 million to $450 million in the first quarter, and $2.3 billion to $2.35 billion for the year. Analysts expect $449.5 million for the first quarter and $2.29 billion for the year.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020908:42
SYMBOL = LUV
Southwest's stock falls as traffic fails to keep pace with capacity
Shares of Southwest Airlines LUV, +0.02% dropped 1.5% in premarket trade, after the air carrier said capacity increased more than traffic in January, leading to a decline in a key industry metric. The load factor for the month fell to 75.1% from 76.3%, as traffic rose 8.6% to 8.05 billion revenue passenger miles while capacity increased 10.2% to 10.71 available seat miles. Passenger revenue for available seat mile declined 1%. The stock has climbed 15% over the past three months through Friday, compared with gains of 9.4% in the NYSE Arca Airline index XAL, -1.77% and 1.2% in the S&P 500.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020908:16
SYMBOL = AAL
American Airlines January traffic declines, raises fuel price outlook
American Airlines' stock AAL, -2.94% dropped 1.9% in premarket trade Monday, after the air carrier reported a decline in January traffic and raised its first-quarter outlook for fuel prices. The company said traffic declined 2.8% from a year ago to 16.8 billion revenue passenger miles, while capacity fell 0.2% to 21.5 billion available seat miles. Load factor declined 2.1 percentage points to 78.2%. Given the recent jump in oil and fuel prices, the company said it raised its first-quarter estimate for fuel costs per gallon to range of $1.81 to $1.86 from $1.71 to $1.76. As a result, the company cut its adjusted margin estimate to 12% to 14% from 13% to 15%. The stock has run up 11% over the past three months through Friday, while the S&P 500 has gained 1.2%. Crude oil prices surged 7.2% last week.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020907:54
SYMBOL = ANF
Abercrombie & Fitch downgraded, price target slashed at Wunderlich
Shares of Abercrombie & Fitch ANF, +3.82% were falling 3.4% in light, premarket trade Monday, after Wunderlich Securities slashed its rating to sell from hold on the belief that hopes for a turnaround are overdone. Analyst Eric Beder also cut his stock price target falls to $17 from $30. He wrote in a note to clients that he believes both Abercrombie and Hollister have been unable to retain any pricing power as they switched away from logo-driven products. He also believes dollar strength will hurt its international business, as well as its domestic business that is "highly dependent" on tourist-driven traffic. "When combined with weak management credibility, we believe the pieces are in place for material disappointments when 4Q results are announced on March 4," Beder wrote. The stock has lost 13% over the past three months through Friday, compared with a 1.2% gain in the S&P 500.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020907:33
SYMBOL = L
Loews Corp. swings to profit and tops estimates
Loews Corp. L, -0.49% on Monday said its income from continuing operations fell 13% in the fourth quarter amid a decline in investment income, but the company' earnings beat expectations.
Loews, controlled by the Tisch family, owns 90% of insurance company CNA Financial Corp. CNA, -0.17% as well as controlling interests in Boardwalk Pipeline Partners L.P. BWP, +0.80% which operates natural-gas transmission pipelines, and contract driller Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. DO, +0.19%
Overall for the December quarter, Loews reported a profit of $208 million, or 55 cents a share, compared with a loss of $198 million, or 51 cents a share, a year earlier.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected earnings of 53 cents a share.
Revenue fell to $3.53 billion from $3.77 billion a year earlier. Income from continuing operations fell to $215 million, or 57 cents a share, from $248 million, or 64 cents a share, a year ago.
CNA, meanwhile, reported earnings of $198 million, or 73 cents a share, down from $221 million, or 82 cents a share, in the prior-year period. Earnings were hurt by a $49 million charge related to a pension-plan settlement, though this was partially offset by better accident-year underwriting results and lower catastrophe losses. Excluding the pension charge, CNA said operating income was 96 cents a share.
Analysts had called for earnings of 80 cents a share.
CNA declared a special dividend of $2.00 per share, payable in the middle of March.
At Diamond Offshore, fourth-quarter profit edged up to $99 million, or 72 cents a share, from $93 million, or 67 cents a share, a year earlier despite lower rig utilization and increased depreciation.
Diamond Offshore said it decided not to declare a special dividend due to current weakness in the drilling industry.
Earnings at Boardwalk Pipeline rose to $37 million, or 15 cents a unit, from $20 million, or 8 cents a unit, a year earlier. Profit missed analyst expectations of 18 cents due to higher maintenance costs related to the company's Evangeline ethylene pipeline system, which it acquired in October.
Shares of Lowes, inactive premarket, are off about 3% this year through Friday's close.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020908:19
SYMBOL = AAPL
Apple's stock target raised to $145
 Apple Inc.'s AAPL, +0.03% strong smartphone demand during the fourth quarter should help drive long-term unit sales, analysts at Canaccord said in a note to clients Monday. The analysts raised their price target on Apple's stock to $145 from $135. Canaccord in December predicted that Apple would ship 63 million iPhones during the quarter. Apple sold a record 74.5 million. "Growing iPhone user base should drive steady [long term] iPhone sales and strong cash flows," the analysts said. Shares of Apple traded 0.2% lower at around $118.75 in pre-market trade.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020907:06
SYMBOL = HAS
Hasbro beats on profit, raises dividend
Hasbro Inc. HAS, +0.01% said it had net income of $169.9 million, or $1.34 a share, in the fourth quarter, up from $129.8 million, or 98 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Adjusted net earnings were $1.22 a share, above the FactSet consensus of $1.19. The toys and games maker said revenue rose 1% to $1.30 billion, below the FactSet consensus of $1.329 billion. The company said it is raising its quarterly dividend by 3 cents a share to 46 cents a share, with the first payment to be made on May 15 to shareholders of record as of the close of business May 1. The board has approved a $500 million buyback of its common stock. Shares were not yet active in premarket trade, but are down 3.9% in the last three months, while the S&P 500 has gained 1.2%
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = TASR
TASER International is an industry leader in wearable video cameras used by police departments and law enforcement agencies.
The company's Evidence.com and video segment increased sales by 136% in 2Q14 to $4.5 million.
Studies have shown police officers wearing cameras has a direct correlation to reduced citizen complaints and the reduction in use of force.
As its name indicates, TASER International (NASDAQ:TASR) specializes in selling conducted electrical weapons (CEWs or TASERs) to law enforcement agencies. The company was founded in 1993 and has become an industry leader in selling the non-lethal TASER to enforcement agencies domestically in the United States as well as globally. The TASER weapons product line represents nearly 90% of sales, but due to a changing environment and improving technology, the company's fastest growing and most exciting product is their wearable video camera. Increasingly, city and municipality law enforcement agencies are adopting forward facing wearable video cameras to capture exactly what transpires by recording video and sound of everything that transpires during an arrest, confrontation or routine stop. Recent events in Ferguson, Missouri demonstrate the need for clear visual clarity into events that otherwise turn to rampant speculation and worse. The tragic events in Ferguson, Missouri have brought investors attention to TASER International's wearable video devices and have driven up the price of the stock by nearly 7% on 8/18/14.
The three months ending June 30, 2014, represented the 10th consecutive quarter of year-over-year top line double digit growth. The TASER weapons segment grew $2.4 million year-over-year, or 7.9%, and Evidence.com & video sales increased by $2.6 million, or 136.5% to $4.5 million. The strong growth in the video segment was underscored by an incredibly strong service booking increase of $9.3 million to $11.3 million, over 2Q13 bookings of $2.0 million. While TASER weapons sales represent the biggest current percentage of sales, it's clear the Evidence.com and video segment are the future of the company.
While the video segment holds tremendous growth opportunities, it's important to not overlook the significance of the company's weapons segment. With weapons accounting for nearly 90% of net sales and a strong operating margin over 30%, this segment produces steady cash flow that the company is reinvesting in video technologies to stay ahead of the competition. The TASER weapon market is also a huge untapped market for the company. Today, 1 in 2 police officers carry a TASER and internationally 1 in 50 officers carry a TASER. This gives the company huge potential to expand their weapons segment and put TASER in a good position from agencies upgrading weapons already in circulation.
The Rialto Police Department and Cambridge University conducted a study with TASER International's wearable camera, AXON, and found an 87.5% reduction in citizen complaints as well as a 59% reduction in the use of force by police officers. Citizens as well as police officers are far more likely to behave properly when they know they are being recorded and hearsay evidence is thrown out the window. The city of Rialto also conducted a cost analysis by using cameras and evidence.com. The average cost per complaint averaged $20,000 due to investigations, use of resources and legal fees. The 87.5% reduction in citizen complaints resulted in an estimated 21 avoided complaints, for a total cost savings of $420,000. With the city paying $90,000 for cameras and evidence.com, the net savings in year 1 of the study was an estimated $330,000.
Many municipalities and cities are not equipped with the personnel or IT knowhow to properly manage storing video evidence that has been recorded in the field by police officers and needs to be held as evidence. TASER International has developed evidence.com for users to manage video and information in a timely and cost effective way. This service also provides TASER with important recurring revenue that the company can depend on receiving year after year. In fact, the number of files and data uploaded to the site has nearly quadrupled in the past 12 months. This shows agencies are rapidly adopting the technology and have found the service to be highly effective. The biggest reason for the fall in second quarter net income was due to the large investment in this technology. The company has invested over $5 million into R&D over the past 6 months to improve upon this technology and allow it to expand its presence internationally.
Out of the 72 major cities in the US, there are 7 cities actively using AXON cameras and evidence.com, with 3 more in paid trials and 10 in some form of pilot or active discussions. TASER recently won a 5 year contract in San Diego for roughly $4 million for use of AXON cameras and evidence.com. Because of TASER's large weapons business, the company already has strong relationships with 17,000 out of the 18,000 agencies in the US today, which makes the sale of the video segment a far easier transition. During the second quarter, there were a number of smaller agencies adopting this technology. AXON and evidence.com had significant orders from:
Internationally, the company has seen strong interest in Brazil. During the second quarter the company received orders from 2 of the largest law enforcement agencies in Brazil for initial deployment. TASER has set up offices in the Netherlands to further expand its international footprint. The company has also established a partnership with Amazon to use their cloud services for international agencies to store their video data outside the United States. Many international countries don't trust storing private international evidence in the United States. This allows international agencies to securely store data in data centers in their own country or where ever they choose. TASER has been actively ahead of this issue and has invested heavily to allow international agencies to effectively use this technology. This market remains largely untapped, but TASER is currently head and shoulders above any competition.
Any company that works with city contracts and small municipalities is use to the bureaucratic red tape and budget cuts that are often associated with the contract process. TASER International deals primarily in this area, so rapid adoption of these new technologies is unlikely and is subject city budgets. The company must also deal with many police unions that are fighting police officers being required to wear these video cameras. While the law enforcement industry is beginning to adopt this technology, both police unions and city council members must all agree before large cities begin to adopt wearable camera devices. The trend is moving in the right direction for TASER, but rapid adoption by major cities is unlikely in the short-term.
TASER International has rallied 25% since the Ferguson shooting and nearly 50% since its 52 week low on 7/17/14. This rally has led to a P/E of 47.8 and a forward 2015 P/E of 35. The EV/EBITDA has also significantly increased to 23. These high valuations make establishing a new position difficult. The rapid rise in price has taken the value out of the stock and back to levels seen before the stock sold off to a 52 weak low of $10.50. In the short-term, the company will continue to invest heavily in R&D for Evidence.com and AXON, which could hurt short-term EPS.
In the long-term, the stock looks attractive. The company has $48 million in cash, roughly 6% of market cap, and only $100,000 in long-term debt for capital leases. This clean balance sheet can help a company tremendously through tough times as well as capitalizing profits during times of revenue growth. 2Q14 was the 10th quarter with double-digit revenue growth and this should continue for the foreseeable future as agencies adopt wearable video cameras and TASER collects reoccurring service revenue. When TASER begins to wind down capital spending on R&D for video technology, the company has the potential to greatly increase EPS. Just a $2.5 million reduction in R&D would have increased 2Q14 EPS by 30%. I'm not recommending TASER reduce R&D expenses, but when they do get ahead of the curve and are able to lower this investment, the stock valuation will come back in-line. This is great news for long-term investors. I'd recommend current shareholders hold their positions and enjoy the ride up and investors looking to establish a position wait until the Ferguson news settles. When Ferguson is out of the spot light, TASER stock will likely see a modest decline as investors take profits and the numbers of articles, like this, die down.
Major events, such as the one in Ferguson, Missouri, show the need for police officers to enter to the digital age. Today, dashboard cameras inside police cars are standard. Over the next decade, it is likely that every police officer will wear a video camera. These cameras make it less likely for citizens to become disgruntled and aggressive as they know they are being filmed and will hold police officers accountable for their actions, therefore reducing the use of force. This win/win also gives indisputable evidence as to what happened during an arrest, which will reduce court fees for citizens disputing police accounts and reducing citizen complaints. With technology improving, it is become cost effective for law enforcement agencies to adopt wearable video cameras. TASER International already has relationships with the vast majority of agencies in the US through its weapons segment, making the transition to AXON and Evidence.com sales much easier. The company has also invested heavily into IT support to help cities manage video evidence. TASER is the industry leader in wearable video devices and will capitalize on this expanding market for many years to come. The events in Ferguson, Missouri could have been avoided if the police officer was wearing a TASER video device. It often takes a tragic event to spur action and it is likely that these recent events in Ferguson will expedite many police departments to adopt this technology going forward.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = DKS
The company beat consensus on the top and bottom lines.
We still have a long-term bullish thesis on the company with the premise that the company can restructure its golf business and grow margins.
We felt the company could beat earnings given the market’s focus on the golf business, overshadowing other pockets of strength.
Dick's Sporting Goods (NYSE:DKS) managed to post 2Q earnings that were $0.67 a share (beating $0.65 consensus) and revenues marginally beat consensus. Company-wide comparable store sales were up 3.2%, compared to 2.2% consensus. The gold and hunting business was still weak, but the rest of the business (excluding these two) saw a 7.8% increase in same-store sales. Same store sales at Golf Galaxy was down 9.3%.
Dick's has also consolidated its Golf Galaxy merchandising, marketing and store operations into Dick's Sporting Goods. Dick's guided full year 2014 comp store growth of 1% to 3%, with EPS expected to be $2.70 to $2.85 (compared to the current consensus of $2.79). Shares are up nearly 3.5% today on the news.
But shares are flat since we covered the stock back in June. We still think Dick's could trade up to $55 in a relatively short time period -- suggesting just over 20% upside. As we noted a couple months ago:
Margins should also increase over the next few years as Dick's starts pushing its exclusive merchandise, with a focus on the higher margin products (including footwear and apparel). E-commerce remains one of the brightest spots for the company. As the penetration of e-commerce sales continues, company-wide margins should improve. Margins will improve even more when Dick's brings its e-commerce operations in-house, expected by 2018.
2Q showed progress in its e-commerce growth. Penetration for 2Q was 6.3% of total sales, compared to 5.6% in 2Q 2013.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = HD
Home Depot reported earnings above analyst expectations, resulting in a pop in share price.
However, earnings and sales growth was in line with my valuation model.
EPS guidance above my model, however driven by share repurchases.
The stock remains overvalued and I recommend staying away.
In my last article on 6/25, I argued that Home Depot ((NYSE:HD)) was an unwise investment at current prices, pointing out to the high sales growth needed to justify the current share price. Since then, the stock has been tracking slightly ahead of the S&P 500 and after posting earnings that beat expectations earlier today, is up 10% against 1.5% for the S&P.
Home Depot posted strong second-quarter earnings for FY14, with a 5.7% increase in sales driven by a 5.8% increase in comparable store sales for Q2 of FY14. It also raised guidance and now expects sales to grow 4.8% YoY, and EPS to grow to $4.52. However, I had already factored these growth rates into my model. My EPS growth was slightly lower at $4.24, however the variance to my model and HD guidance is largely driven by share repurchases and thus had little impact on valuation (since it results in a reduction in net cash). All the operational metrics as well as the guidance are in line with my model, which actually assumes a slightly higher FY14 growth rate for HD at 5.3% compared to the company's own guidance. I have also assumed 5% comp growth going forward, which will be hard to achieve on a sustainable basis.
Home Depot is executing well, however the company is simply priced too high at a P/E of 22.5 in relation to its long-term growth prospects. Even if I reduce my prior discount rate assumption from 10% to 9%, the fair market value is still $75, which would be a 15% discount to today's prices. As a result, I conclude that HD remains an overvalued stock and continue to recommend that investors stay away.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = WFM
Whole Foods remains a relatively small grocery chain.
Comp sales are solid especially at new stores.
Valuation metrics still have room for contraction.
The recent weakness in Whole Foods Market (WFM) stock is a classic example of multiple contraction. A historically fast-growing concept is suddenly challenged by new competition causing investors to flee the stock. This scenario plays out every day in the stock market, but it doesn't mean stock gains are over for investors in the challenged leader.
The organic and fresh food segment remains relatively small, but it is quickly becoming more mainstream with a push for healthy foods. In addition, the movement towards more value concepts like Sprouts Farmers Market (SFM) and offerings at traditional retailers like Kroger (KR) offer better access and distribution to consumers than the traditional upscale Whole Foods.
Whole Foods has to go through a transition of re-pricing the stock that will take time, but the leader of the organic sector has potential to thrive again.
The number that stands out the most in the last quarterly report is the relatively limited store base for the leading organic food grocer that has been around for 35 years. Whole Foods Market only operated 388 stores with plans to reach 400 this year. As an example, Kroger operates 10,000 stores under several different brands.
The revenue is equally far apart with Kroger generating over $100 billion in annual sales and Whole Foods Market only reaching $14 billion this year. Much smaller Sprouts only expects to reach nearly $3 billion in annual sales this year. The two combined leaders in the fresh and organic grocery segment hardly reach 15% of the sales produced by Kroger alone.
Decent Comp Sales
Again, the issues with Whole Foods Market stock is more of that the stock price finally matters. The stock traded at relatively large earnings multiples for years and the recent guidance cuts have investors second guessing how much they are willing to pay.
Whole Foods Market still has solid comps for Q3'14 of 3.9% that the rest of retail world would die to achieve. It doesn't match the roughly 9.5% comps for Q2'14 of smaller rival Sprouts Farmers Market, but that doesn't mean that Whole Foods is losing out. Sprouts benefits from a younger concept with a newer store base. As the table below shows, the average comps at Whole Foods for stores less than eight years old easily exceeds 5%:
Ultimately, the numbers at Whole Foods are decent, but the real issue is the valuation multiple that investors are willing to pay is dropping. Over the last year, the forward PE ratio for Whole Foods has dropped from over 30 to below 23.
Combined with the plunging earnings estimates seen below, the stock has taken it on the chin dropping from $65 to now below $40.
Whole Foods Market might continue to struggle with the multiple contraction due to higher competition, but it doesn't preclude the company from eventually rebounding after the stock reaches more normalized valuation multiples possibly closer to the 15 to 20 range. The market penetration of the organic and fresh concept remains relatively small compared to the grocery industry. Not to mention, Whole Foods still possesses solid growth that will eventually propel the stock higher. For now though, investors need to relax and not overpay for this stock at over 23x forward earnings estimates.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = STAY
STAY is a hotel company that specializes in longer term stays.
As economy improves, consumer discretionary and vacation spending could increase.
Increased mobility expected by employers can lead to more revenue for extended stay hotels.
Executive Summary
Extended Stay America (NYSE:STAY) is a company that specializes in affordable extended stay hotel experiences. The company operates over 684 hotels throughout the United States and Canada. The company is headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. Given recent trends I have noticed, as well as my interest in the hotel sector I felt I would analyze the stock as a potential investment.
In regards to trends that I have noticed through speaking to people in both my local circles but also national circles, vacation expenditures for summer 2014 have been strong. Although Extended Stay does not necessarily cater itself to vacationers only, recent economic development in many parts of the country has also led to employees being temporarily stationed in different areas of the country. Particularly in the technology sector, there are a lot of companies that are sending employees on remote trips for business and utilizing Extended Stay hotels to be able to do so. Companies are increasingly becoming more expecting their employees to be more mobile, primarily due to large changes in technology over the last few decades. Working from remote locations has become easier than ever, which means that employees periodically traveling to various remote locations may be necessary for some businesses.
Extended Stay proved my observations are at least partially correct by reporting strong earnings recently. The company had revenue increase by 9.6% to $321.9 million, as well as increased margins and net income. Net income increased by roughly 23.3% or $8.8 million bringing it to $46.3 million.
Despite the potential positives, there are some drawbacks to investing in Extended Stay as well. One of the largest downsides in my opinion is the lack of history for the company. The company has only been public for a short period of time. A lack of history and performance history can make judging future revenues and performance more difficult. Looking at the stock history that it has had so far, the performance has been less than stellar. Although it has only been since 2013, the stock has underperformed on the market. It is important to point out that this is not necessarily a fair comparison, given the short time horizon of the performance being analyzed.
The underperformance isn't the only risk with Extended Stay however. The price to earnings ratio for the company seems overvalued, at 49.3 according to Morningstar. From a valuation standpoint the company is trading at a P/E Ratio higher than its competitors average of 34.6, and higher than the S&P 500 average of 18.2. Considering the recent market volatility and current overall market valuation, it appears Extended Stay may be overvalued at current levels.
The economic volatility can of course affect the company in many different ways. Increased economic volatility can decrease the amount of discretionary income consumers spend on vacations, decrease the length of vacations, and can also decrease the amount of money that a company may be willing to spend to send an employee to a different location. All three of these factors could hurt hotel revenues. Much of this risk is out of the control of the company, but still needs to be considered.
The last risk I'll mention is that the company has continued to offer additional stock offerings. The company was recently in the news for offering 21 million shares in conjunction with ESH Hospitality, which is a subsidiary of Extended Stay.
In conclusion, there isn't a real compelling reason to buy into Extended Stay stock at current levels. The market volatility could lead to some depressed prices in all stocks, and potential economic volatility could hurt the company even further. Given the lack of history for this company, the risk and reward profile doesn't seem favorable enough for me at present time. Investors may be wise to consider other stocks for the time being.
This article is given for informational purposes only and is not to be construed as investment advice. Contact your investment professional and do your own due diligence before investing.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = DYSL
Dynasil has succeeded in getting rid of its underperforming, instrumentation segment, allowing the company to regain a solid financial standing.
Dynasil now has two major segments that are growing and profitable.
Dynasil, despite its recent growth in share price, is still undervalued with growing revenue opportunities and a virtually untapped intellectual property.
Five years ago, Dynasil Corporation (NASDAQ:DYSL) was trading at a similar level to what it is today. The company, a developer of optical components used in a number of end markets, had executed a number of acquisitions to grow its business rapidly. As a result, the Dynasil's share price appreciated considerably.
Dynasil's shares peaked in October 2010, just before the company found itself in trouble. A number of products produced by DYSL's Instrumentation Segment required expensive refreshes as they reached the end of their useful life. These products included the Lead Tracer, the XRF Lead Paint Detector and the Navigator Probe. The Lead Tracer was discontinued, while the remaining two products cost far more than anticipated and were released outside of their initial timetables. This put the company in a financial bind as expenses grew and sales shrunk. As a result, revenues dropped considerably, profits became large losses and the company defaulted on its credit agreement with Santander Bank, all causing the stock price to plummet to under $1/share in January 2013.
To remedy the situation, the Dynasil made a number of changes, including putting its optics companies and RMD Instruments segment up for sale. Without having to sell any of its optics companies, DYSL sold everything associated with its XRF Lead Paint Detector (to PROTEC Instrument Corp. in Nov. '13) and Navigator Probe (to Dilon Technologies in Dec. '13) product lines. These sales resulted in payments of $1.2 million and $2.75 million to Santander Bank, which greatly reduced the company's indebtedness.
With its debt situation under control, Dynasil refocused its efforts on its remaining major business segments: contract research and optics. Since the fiscal year ended on September 30, 2013, revenues from each of these segments grew 4% and 18% respectively. These increases have just about offset the revenues lost in the sales of the instrumentation product lines. Sales have only decreased 2% year-over-year during the nine months ended June 30, 2014, despite a $3 million drop in instruments sales over that period.
What's more, Dynasil has returned to profitability, growing its margins in the remaining two major business segments. The contract research segment reported an operating margin of 3.9% for the nine months ended June 30, 2014, compared to 1.6% for the same period last year. The optics segment reported an operating margin of 8.2%, compared to 3.4%.
As a result of Dynasil's improving financials, the share price has appreciated considerably, moving from a closing low of $0.47 on May 16, 2013 to a closing high of $1.85 on June 23, 2014--a 294% increase. Despite this recent run, the company's stock price still has more room to move, as it is undervalued for a few of reasons:
The company's recent acquisition of DichroTec Thin Films will allow Dynasil to increase its operating capacity, adding to its revenues. Just how much remains yet to be seen, but CEO Peter Sulick believes the new facility will contribute a couple million dollars in additional revenues per year. This new facility will also allow the company to free up its large 108-inch coating chamber by offloading some of the scheduled work into the acquired facility. This acquisition should be accretive six months after the acquisition was completed.
Dynasil has an untapped intellectual property portfolio, containing around 50 patents, which have been granted over the past four to five years. Sulick noted that there are another 50-55 pending. As of now, the company has not actively tried to monetize this vast portfolio although they do have a few licensing deals. However, Sulick stated, "The marketplace is looking good for materials that we have the patents for," when I spoke with him over the phone in early July.
DYSL has a very small biomedical segment that could contribute considerably to the company's financials in the future. This segment consists of spin-off, Xcede Technologies, which DYSL owns 90% of. According to Sulick: "Xcede Tech has a sealant that it has five patents on that has retained an interest although Dynasil is no longer funding it. Over time, the value of that technology is going to be significant." So, with no overhead costs by way of funding, DYSL could capitalize on these budding opportunities.
Some may argue that Dynasil has already appreciated considerably, and is thus no longer undervalued. However, DYSL's value is more long-term than its recent stock appreciation. Dynasil has turned its financials around and shareholders were rewarded for the company's success in doing so. While turning its financials around, the company has shown the ability to grow revenues while reducing costs, something management believes it will continue to do. The company's prospects (its recent acquisition, its extensive IP portfolio and its stake in Xcede Technologies) should lead to further revenue growth. If margins hold or increase as revenues grow, the increase sales will drop through to the bottom line.
Quite a bit remains yet to be seen as Dynasil attempts to regain its former stock market glory. However, the company is well on its way under a management team that has returned DYSL to increasing revenues and earnings, and decreasing debt. Meanwhile, the company is a bargain, trading at around $1.70/share.
Editor's Note: This article covers one or more stocks trading at less than $1 per share and/or with less than a $100 million market cap. Please be aware of the risks associated with these stocks.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = AMZN
The Fire Phone was celebrated by the analyst community when launched.
Like with so many other Amazon.com events, great estimates were awarded to the phone.
Yet, here we are, faced with hard data and the analysts are nowhere to be seen. Like with other instances, there seems to be something odd about it.
There's something which is odd about Amazon.com (NASDAQ:AMZN). I am not talking about the way it lost all its earnings and still it gets analyst support and massive price targets. Or how it's so patently false that investment can account for the destruction of earnings witnessed, much less over a 4-year timeframe.
What is really odd is how analysts seem to conscientiously ignore some facts and events regarding the company. I mean, analysts go to great lengths to see promise in things like Amazon Fresh, which likely runs at a substantial loss and that's why it isn't expanded faster. Analysts lap up the thesis that Amazon.com can sell devices at cost and make money on the content later, in spite of the fact that "later" has already arrived for the original Kindle Fire and yet no added profits were seen. Analysts also easily projected unit sales in the millions for the tremendously expensive phone Amazon.com launched, leading to a couple of days' pop which added 10% or so to the stock.
And yet, here we are. We now have proof that the Fire Phone is not selling. It's not even in the top 100 sellers in electronics and gets outsold by such esoteric stuff as the original Kindle Fire which Amazon.com no longer sells. This tells us strongly that the Fire Phone can't be selling more than 100-200k units/year, or less than 1/10th of what was expected. And where are the analysts analyzing this fact? Nowhere to be seen!
Remember, these same analysts had no qualms in predicting a fanciful future for Amazon Fresh, which were highly speculative predictions used to justify higher price targets. And yet, facing what are solid facts, we hear little or nothing from the analyst community?
Something seems awfully wrong. It seems this entire community is devoted to promote the stock like it were a dubious penny stock. Perhaps it has to do with an incoming debt offering that's not yet been announced and will carry juicy commissions, but the whole thing reeks. If the analyst community covering Amazon.com were anything near neutral, its attitude towards the stock would forcibly be very different.
I won't even say how unrealistic it is to predict, back in 2010, that Amazon.com would be making more than $10 per share in profits come 2014, and instead be faced with losses and still award it with price targets hundreds of percent above where they stood in 2010. But these "little" things add up, and really remove one's faith in the honesty of the analyst community. Sure, in the grand scheme of things the Fire Phone might well be irrelevant for Amazon.com. But why then celebrate it when announced, and then remain silent when it so obviously flops?
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = AMD
Light Q2 chip sales for computers weighed on AMD.
Sub $200 laptops feature AMD processors.
Contribution to its rebound in PC market analyzed.
Confirmation that Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) will release a $199 laptop, through Hewlett-Packard (NYSE:HPQ), will bode well for Advanced Micro Devices (NASDAQ:AMD) shareholders. AMD fell sharply after speculators bid its share price ahead of quarterly results. The optimism was built around Intel (NASDAQ:INTC) reporting a strong quarter thanks to a rebound in PCs. Yet AMD's rebound is merely delayed.
HP eased fears it would become irrelevant in the PC market by committing itself to low-cost computers. The hardware giant entered the tablet market through the release of Android Slate tablets. On the PC side, it is choosing Microsoft's Windows 8.1 powered by AMD's processor. All other specifications are standard: the display is 1366 x 768, storage is 32 - 64GB, and there is 2GB of memory.
At $199, margins will be negligible for Microsoft, but the company will benefit from promoting OneDrive, a cloud storage offering. From there, users will get exposed to other Microsoft products, including Office 365, Bing search, and Outlook.com. Users will also realize there is an alternative to Google's (NASDAQ:GOOG) (NASDAQ:GOOGL) Chromebook. Windows 8.1 is a more efficient operating system: the operating system runs on seven-year-old machines having only 1 GB of RAM.
AMD benefits if budget notebooks take off. The recent gain in tablet sales hurt the growth in PC sales in recent years. Undercutting tablets will help AMD regain market share against Intel, though investors should not expect high profit margins. Still, AMD is moving toward other markets, so it is not too worried if profits are light. Sony (NYSE:SNE) just surpassed 10 million PS4 sales in the last nine months. Since AMD is a supplier, profits from this division may easily offset any margin pressures from the budget laptop chip.
AMD is betting on renewed interest from consumers for budget PCs. There is more flexibility and power for users running the current generation of budget PCs powered by AMD and running Windows 8. If the $199 HP laptop is successful, users might eventually choose AMD-powered systems for future upgrades. In Q2, Acer, Dell, HP and Lenovo all released notebooks that used AMD's 3rd generation mobile APU. AMD is marketing two APU series: an FX brand and a Pro A-Series.
Losses narrowed in Q2
AMD lost $36 million on revenue of $1.44 billion. This is an improvement over the $74 million loss on $1.16 billion revenue last year. AMD underperformed its peers in the last month, but regained some ground in recent trading sessions.
Investors will soon forgive AMD for reporting a quarterly loss whilst forecasting weak overall PC sales ahead. Gaining exposure through HP and Microsoft in the ultra-budget notebook market is positive for AMD. Wins like this will help AMD report better desktop, processor and chipset sales in the quarters ahead. Growth could accelerate for AMD in 2015 as Microsoft refreshes its Windows 8.1 operating system software.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = SWIR
Good quarterly performance is a sign of better things to come.
Sierra Wireless is well-positioned to benefit from the "Internet of Things" market.
The company's partnership with Cisco and Philips will prove to be beneficial in the long run.
Sierra is a great buy at present valuations.
Sierra Wireless (NASDAQ:SWIR) recently reported upbeat quarterly results, and the company's fortunes seem to have turned around nicely. Sierra shares have gained impressively in the past few months, with the stock gaining 38% in the past three months. The company is seeing improvements on all fronts, and has surpassed analysts' estimates. Let's take a closer look at Sierra's earnings and see how it might perform in the future.
As reported by Business Wire, the primary points of Sierra's earnings report include the following:
Record revenue of $135.0 million, an increase of 23.2% compared to Q2 2013.
Non-GAAP earnings from operations of $3.7 million, an increase of 149% compared to $1.5 million in Q2 2013.
Non-GAAP EPS of $0.08, an increase of 167% compared to $0.03 in Q2 2013.
Also, operating expenses for the quarter were almost $50 million, up sequentially, while the gross margin for the quarter dipped to 32.2% from 33%. The net earnings were $500,000, i.e. $0.02 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $0.02 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter. Impressively, the EBITDA more than doubled to $4.1 million from $1.8 million a year earlier.
Sierra Wireless is gaining traction in its primary market segments, including automotive, networking and mobile computing. In the OEM solutions segment, a record number of new designs and strong revenue growth is credited to the company's precise investments in adding sales capacity in important markets, and the enhancement of its product portfolio.
As a result, Sierra expects a growing number of its AirVantage cloud services customers and subscribers to come through its OEM solutions channel. The company witnessed massive increase in sales of 2G, 3G and 4G-enabled wireless modules for energy, industrial, mobile computing, networking and automotive applications in this quarter.
Sierra is entering the "Internet of Things" market with its cloud management services and wireless communication modules. In IoT, the company currently possesses about 34% of the total embedded cellular machine-to-machine module business. Apart from this, networking company Cisco will help bring more devices online, thus leading to higher demand for M2M connectivity solutions that Sierra provides.
Sierra has a long-time relationship with Cisco, as it supplied its modules to Cisco's integrated services routers a couple of years ago. Cisco is now advancing in IoT, thus creating more and more opportunities for Sierra. The more the market in IoT expands, the higher will be the need for Sierra's devices. Sierra has also collaborated with Tech Mahindra, a large global IT solutions integrator, to develop and deploy M2M solutions for customers globally.
A few months ago, Sierra signed a deal with Philips to connect city lighting to the IoT, and this could prove to be beneficial in the long run. The ability to control street lighting can offer more consistent service, more efficient utilization of city funds and a more eco-friendly solution, and this will help Sierra establish its foothold in the market.
Sierra Wireless' acquisition of In Motion Technology and AnyDATA's M2M business has turned out to be very profitable. These acquisitions were made based on the fact that the market for IoT is expanding. In Motion provides mobile enterprise solutions and in-car mobile routers that are incorporated with a superior mobile-optimized security system, while AnyDATA adds M2M embedded modules and modems to Sierra's portfolio, along with its large network and high sales in Korea.
Legato, the company's next-generation Linux-based platform, allows developers to create and run applications faster. Sierra launched its new products like the AirLink LS300 and GX440, based on the Legato platform, which resulted in significant revenue growth in Europe. It also started shipping ES440, a gateway product designed specifically for the enterprise sphere. Sierra is planning to pre-install Legato on all new smart device modules, which will drive the adoption of its products in the long run.
Sierra Wireless looks cheap at a trailing P/E ratio of 10.5. It has a strong balance sheet, with $151 million in cash and no debt. Also, Sierra Wireless' prospects are strong, and given its steady financials, it seems to be a smart investment for the future
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = ST
Sensata Technologies acquires the Schrader Group.
The deal looks very appealing as Sensata buys the company at a discount to its own valuation while Schrader has excellent growth prospects and synergies.
Despite the very nice deal, the overall valuation is too steep for me despite the appealing growth prospects.
Investors in Sensata Technologies (NYSE:ST) were very much pleased with the company's acquisition of the Schrader Group.
While the deal looks nice on a standalone basis, the growth prospects and synergies to be realized only add to the appeal. Yet the high valuation of Sensata overall limits the risk-reward opportunity in my eyes at the moment.
Sensata announced that it has reached an agreement to acquire the Schrader Group from Madison Dearborn Partners.
The company will pay a total enterprise value of $1.0 billion for the producer of tire pressure monitoring sensors, also known as TPMS.
The deal, which is suspect to usual closing conditions is expected to close in the fourth quarter of this year.
Schrader producers low TMPS as well as low-pressure sensing capabilities. The already large market is expected to have even better days in the future driven by more strict regulation across the globe.
Schrader, which is a US headquartered business, is pretty much a global business, employing some 2,500 workers across the globe including some 300 engineers.
The company has pioneered the TMPS, which is pretty much a standard safety feature in North America, being used by all the large OEMs. Tougher environmental rules regarding fuel economy and safety regulations are driving the expected growth of the business.
The 17 million North American vehicles being sold per annum need to have TMPS since 2008. European rules will go into effect later this year, adding another potential market of 20 million vehicles. The real potential for growth comes from China as the government is making progress to create a mandate enforcing 23 million cars per annum to be equipped with TMPS.
CEO Martha Sullivan likes the business, giving the company a dominant position in the global $2 billion low-pressure sensor market, which is showing rapid growth. The expertise in sensing, wireless communications and design is complementary to Sensata's own operations, creating real synergies through the organization's expertise and skill.
The $1 billion price tag looks okay given the reported profitability of the firm and anticipated growth.
The deal values Schrader at 1.8 times anticipated revenues of about $550 million expected to be realized this year. The deal furthermore values the company at 10 times anticipated EBITDA of $100 million foreseen for 2015. No earnings details regarding the current profitability of the business have been announced.
The deal should be accretive by $0.13-$0.16 per share to 2014's adjusted earnings. Accretion is anticipated to increase toward $0.18-$0.21 per share for next year.
Yet the real benefits will be seen after the integration of the company and the pay down of debt, adding another $0.50-$0.55 per share in anticipated earnings per share accretion. On top of that, the ramp-up of TPMS in China could add another $0.18-$0.22 per share in earnings. All in all, the total benefits of the deal could be very sizable in the future.
Even after not taking into account the potential for all these various sources of synergies, the valuation in terms of EBITDA and sales ratios look very appealing to Sensata's own valuation as seen in the valuation section of the article.
The deal fits within Sensata's aim to double revenues from $1.9 billion in 2012 to nearly $4 billion by 2017. The company aims to achieve this by making deals including the purchase of Wabash Technologies, DeltaTech Controls and now Schrader. Deals are being supplemented with a 7-10% targeted annual organic growth.
This deal is sizable, adding significantly to the revenue targets as the other two deals added about $200 million in revenues combined. Yet the deal tag and decision to finance the purchase with debt does result in an increase in leverage, thereby limiting the potential for large deals in the short run without diluting the shareholder base.
The current 2.7 times net debt/EBITDA ratio is expected to rise toward a multiple of 4 times following the closure of the deal. This could all move toward a 2-3 times ratio within a period of 18 months following closure of the deal.
At the end of July, Sensata released its second quarter results. The company ended the quarter with some $185 million in cash and equivalents while the total debt position totaled $1.7 billion, resulting in a $1.5 billion net debt position. Following the deal, this will increase toward $2.5 billion.
On a trailing basis, the company has posted sales of $2.1 billion on which it posted EBITDA of about $600 million and net earnings of $260 million.
With 173 million shares outstanding and shares trading at $49 per share, equity is valued at $8.5 billion. This values equity of the business at 4 times sales, roughly 14 times EBITDA and 32-33 times earnings. Including the impact of the acquisitions, sales could be much closer to $2.8 billion while I could envision EBITDA of $750 million and earnings of $300 million in the near future.
This would result in equity being valued at 3 times sales, 11-12 times EBITDA and an earnings multiple just below 30 times.
The company has a long history, starting operations early in the 20th century. Since 1959, the business was part of Texas Instruments (NYSE:TXI), which sold the business in 2006 to Bain Capital, which sold the company to the general public in an IPO in 2010.
Today, the company operates in long-term growth markets focusing on safety, a clean environment and energy efficiency solutions in a wide range of applications and industries. Investors buying into the IPO or just thereafter have seen solid returns. Shares traded in the $15-$20 region in 2010, but have steadily risen to fresh all time highs of $49 following the news of the latest deal.
Sensata has two big tailwinds allowing it to report rapid growth. This is solid organic growth as well as deal-making. These deals combined with organic growth should allow the company to post sales of $4 billion by 2017.
Given the focus on high margin businesses a billion in annual EBITDA might be very likely in such a scenario, easily supporting earnings of about $500 million. That being said, the company already has an $8.5 billion equity valuation while assuming $2.5 billion in debt.
These steep valuations combined with the lack of dividends make me a bit cautious at this point in time, although I like the underlying business very much. For the year, the company anticipated to post earnings of about $2.42 per share. Adding anticipated accretion of about $0.15 per share resulting from the deal, this can push this earnings guidance to $2.53 per share.
Unfortunately, this is the adjusted forecast, a non-GAAP accounting measure, with GAAP earnings historically coming in at roughly 65% of non-GAAP earnings. This values the company still at a 30 times GAAP earnings multiple for 2014, which is simply quite rich.
I'm willing to pay a 20-22 times multiple for the company based on next year's earnings, and at the most can squeeze out a potential entry point of $40 per share. This is after pushing the valuation by applying a higher multiple on a generous earnings forecast for next year.
As such, a substantial correction would have to occur before shares are appealing in my eyes. That being said, I applaud both management and shareholders with a greatly accretive deal, which already created nearly $500 million in shareholder value on Monday.
For me, the current valuation offers no appealing risk-reward opportunity at the moment.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = SRE
The results of Q2 are positive, including confirmed guidance.
Sempra is a dividend contender with a growing track record during the past 10 years.
During the last 3 years, the free cash flow has been negative.
Sempra Energy (NYSE:SRE) is an American company operating in the energy distribution and production field, and it's part of the S&P500. Its activities can be divided into 3 parts.
The first, California Utilities, consists of San Diego Gas & Electric (SDG & E) and Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas). These two entities have about 24 million customers in the United States.
The second part, Sempra International, produces and distributes energy in Mexico, via Sempra Mexico, and other countries (Peru and Chile) with Sempra South American Utilities.
Finally, the third part, Sempra US Gas & Power, is divided in two, Sempra Renewables and Sempra Natural Gas. This part exploits renewable energy sources (solar, wind) and LNG.
Q2 results were solid, thus allowing the company to reaffirm its guidance of an EPS of $4.25-$4.55, hoping to be in the upper part of this estimate. Only for Q2, the EPS is $1.08, which represents $2.07 for the first six months of the year.
The other very important point is the authorization received from the FERC to begin the construction of Cameron LNG. Cheniere (NYSEMKT:LNG) was the first company to get this authorization.
This site will allow the export of LNG to gas-consuming countries, including Japan and France, thanks to the contracts already signed with Mitsubishi and GDF Suez. This project provides great hope for growth, as Sempra Natural Gas' revenues were $13 million for the first half of 2014, a figure that could rise significantly in the medium term due to these LNG exports.
An Established Dividend Contender
Today, Sempra is on the Dividends Contenders list -- those companies that have proven their ability to pay dividends, and especially to increase them, for at least 10 years.
With the current dividend of $0.66 per quarter, the distribution in 2014 will be $2.64, which gives an average annual growth of 14% since 2010.
The most important question is whether this dividend is sustainable, and whether Sempra has the opportunity to continue these annual increases.
Free cash flow is an important factor that shows the cash a company is able to generate after maintenance expenses or the expansion of its assets. This cash can be used to pay dividends, repurchase shares, etc.
It is determined by several existing methods. I use the following formula: 
Free cash flow = (cash from operating activities) - (capital expenditures and & investments). 
In its annual report of December 2013, Sempra reported the following data:
For 3 years, the company has never had a positive free cash flow. This can be explained by heavy investments needed for development, especially the Cameron LNG site, which requires an estimated cost of $9 billion to $10 billion.
But this data is of high importance when estimating the sustainability of the dividend. In fact, if the situation were to continue for several years, it is likely that the dividend increases could slow, maybe even stop. Remember, the opening of Cameron LNG is expected by 2018, the earliest.
Since the early 2000s, Sempra Energy has proven itself to be able to increase its dividend on an annual basis, and the company is now on the list of Dividend Contenders. However, one ought to be vigilant in the future, and closely monitor the free cash flow.
Indeed, if the FCF is negative year after year and the company uses debt to pay shareholders, it might be difficult to get to 2018 and the commencement of LNG operations on the Cameron site. This will most likely involve capex reductions, and it might jeopardize the company's Dividend Contender status. Conversely, if Sempra Energy continues to increase the dividend every year until then without using too much debt, it will open the horizons for generating positive FCF. Thus, the company will be able to facilitate further dividend growth.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140819
SYMBOL = IR
Ingersoll-Rand acquires the centrifugal compression business from competitor Cameron.
Investors like the deal given the sizable synergy estimates, resulting in solid anticipated accretion to earnings.
The premium valuation, leveraged position and cyclical results creates no appeal in my eyes.
Investors in Ingersoll-Rand (NYSE:IR) were pleased with the company's intention to acquire the centrifugal compression business from Cameron International (NYSE:CAM), in a deal which adds just 3-4% in annual revenues.
Investors send shares to fresh highs given the deal and the expected earnings accretion resulting from the acquisition. Despite the enthusiasm relating to the deal I don't like shares that much amidst a premium valuation, a substantial degree of leverage and cyclical past results.
Ingersoll-Rand announced that his has entered into an agreement to buy the Centrifugal Compression assets from Cameron in a $850 million deal.
The deal is expected to close by the end of this year, being subject to normal closing conditions including regulatory approval.
The centrifugal business provides equipment as well as aftermarket parts and services for industrial applications, air separations and gas transmission, among others. In essence, the business operates in a niche, generating high margins in the process.
The acquired company employs about 850 workers across 12 global locations including a manufacturing facility in the U.S. as well as in China. Among its most prominent brand offerings is "Turbo-Air" as well as "MSG".
CEO Michael Lamach likes the business given the complementary products, manufacturing and engineering strengths. The business which is based in Houston furthermore has great diversification across the globe, generating roughly a third of its revenues in the Americas, the EMEA region and Asia-Pacific & Middle East.
The unit will become a part of Ingersoll's Compressed Air Systems and Service business unit, with the products being used in industrial and manufacturing applications.
The $850 million price tag values the acquired activities at 2.1 times annual revenues. The reported deal value implies a valuation at roughly 10.5 times EBITDA, implying that EBITDA is seen around $81 million on a stand-alone basis.
The deal multiple is anticipated to come down to 6.5 times EBITDA after incorporating the anticipated synergies resulting from the deal. This implies that pre-tax synergies could come in as high as $50 million per annum, quite a bit in relationship to the reported deal tag and the revenue base of the business.
As such the deal could add as much as $0.08 to $0.10 in earnings per share by 2015, with accretion thereafter anticipated to increase to $0.15-$0.20 per share.
At the end of the second quarter, Ingersoll-Rand held about $930 million in cash and equivalents while its total debt position of $3.6 billion results in a net debt position of about $2.7 billion. This will increase towards $3.5 billion following the deal.
On a trailing basis, Ingersoll has posted sales of about $11.6 billion with the reported deal tag adding a relatively modest amount to reported revenues. With 274 million diluted shares outstanding, and the company guiding for earnings of $3.13-$3.21 per share, the company anticipated earnings of about $870 million. Note that this does not include the contribution of the latest acquisition.
With shares trading around $62 per share, equity in the business is being valued at $17 billion. This values operations at about 1.4 times annual sales and 19-20 times annual earnings.
The industrial business has seen its ups and downs in recent years, yet the company and its predecessors have been in business for a very long time. Back in 2009 the company moved its headquarters to Ireland before tax inversions came into fashion in order to cut the corporate tax bill of U.S. companies.
While lower taxes are helpful to shareholders, they prefer to see steady operational achievements. Over the past decade, the company has only increased its sales by about a quarter, after sales peaked at nearly $15 billion in 2011. It should be noted that the spin-off of Allegion PLC (NYSE:ALLE) as executed last year resulted in "lost" revenues of about $2 billion per year. The company has been profitable with exception of the crisis in 2008, posting net earnings between $300 million per annum and a billion ever since.
In the light of the slow pace of reported revenue growth, investors should consider that the company has reduced its outstanding share base by some 20-25% over this time period, adding to reported growth on a per share basis.
In a presentation at Sanford Bernstein's Strategic Decision Conference, the company reiterated its plans to accelerate revenue growth, demonstrate operational excellence while balancing capital allocation.
The company aims to benefit from challenges including climate change, food and water scarcity, urbanization and energy consumption through a focus on innovation. While its markets in terms of function remain highly diversified, the company still relies on North America for abut two-thirds of its revenues which is actually a benefit at this moment given the solid pace of economic growth.
Investors in Ingersoll have seen volatile but overall quite nice returns over the past decade. Shares fell from levels around $50 in the years before the financial crisis until they fell to levels of just $10-$15 during the crisis.
Ever since shares have risen to current levels in the low sixties. While this has not provided great returns to investors who have invested before the crisis, it is important to realize that this performance has been understated. Last year investors in Ingersoll received 0.333 shares of Allegion PLC after which it was spun-off last year, now representing a value of $17-$18 per share.
On top of that investors have seen modest dividends, currently yielding 1.6% per annum, with the company increasing the pace of share repurchases in recent times. It should be noted that debt is increasing and is quite high at the moment. While I am not necessarily very worried about the leverage position, it does limit the capacity of the balance sheet to do future deals without creating dilution of the shareholder base.
I don't fancy paying a 20 times earnings multiple, a modest premium compared to the general market multiple. The increase in leverage and the lack of impressive historical growth don't warrant a premium valuation in my eyes.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140319
SYMBOL = SBUX
Starbucks Corp (SBUX.O) is wrestling with higher costs for milk and coffee, the two ingredients in its popular lattes, but that does not mean its customers are going to pay more.
"I want to resist raising prices in this environment," Howard Schultz, Starbucks' chairman and chief executive, said, referring to still cautious spending by many consumers.
"I am concerned about dairy, both domestically and around the world, and we are working feverishly with our suppliers, (and to) identify new suppliers," Schultz told reporters after the company's annual meeting in Seattle on Wednesday.
U.S. dairy prices are at record highs and could move up a bit more in March before easing as a result of increased production, said Jerry Dryer, editor of the Dairy & Food Market Analyst.
He and other experts say the rise is primarily due to increased demand from Asia and other markets.
"The demand for dairy in Asia, specifically China, is something the world's going to have to deal with," Schultz said.
General Mills Inc (GIS.N), which sells Yoplait yogurt and Haagen-Dazs ice cream, earlier on Wednesday said that its Yoplait business was the main driver behind an 11 percent decline in its U.S. retail segment operating profit in the latest quarter.
Roughly two-thirds of that profit decline was due to dairy inflation and higher merchandising and marketing investments in its domestic yogurt business, Don Mulligan, General Mills' chief financial officer, said.
"We've been assuming that it will top off for the last few months and it hasn't yet," Mulligan said, referring to dairy prices.
Elsewhere, coffee prices recently hit a two-year high due to crop-damaging drought in Brazil, the top producer.
"I'm not concerned about where coffee is going," Schultz said. "I think the market has significantly overreacted to the issue in Brazil and I don't see coffee prices spiking at very much higher levels than they are today, over the long term."
Schultz said Starbucks has managed through prior commodity cost hikes and "can absolutely do it again."
During the annual meeting, Schultz promised more growth in the years ahead, vowing to turn Starbucks into a "$100 billion company" by an unspecified date in the future. Starbucks' current market value is about $57 billion.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140319
SYMBOL = GE
General Motors Co was hit with a lawsuit on Wednesday demanding that the company be held liable for allegedly concealing ignition problems before its 2009 bankruptcy.
The ignition switch problems led to the recall of 1.6 million vehicles last month.
GM is a different legal entity than the one that filed the 2009 bankruptcy that shook the U.S. economy. The so-called new GM is not responsible under the terms of its bankruptcy exit for legal claims relating to incidents that took place before July 2009. Those claims must be brought against what remains of the "old" or pre-bankruptcy GM.
But the proposed class action, filed in federal court in California, said plaintiffs should be allowed to sue over the pre-bankruptcy actions, "because of the active concealment by Old GM and GM."
The lawsuit also said that GM was responsible for reporting to the federal government any safety-related problems for cars made before its bankruptcy.
A spokesman for the automaker declined to comment specifically on the lawsuit, saying the company has apologized for the recall and that taking care of customers was its top priority.
GM announced the recall in February, despite learning of problems with the ignition switch in 2001. GM has said that when the ignition switch was jostled, a key could turn off the car's engine and disable airbags, sometimes while traveling at high speed.
Wednesday's lawsuit is one of several filed by car owners who claim the recent recall caused their vehicles to lose value. It appears to be the first to raise the issue of "successor liability," meaning that GM could be liable for actions of the company before it emerged from bankruptcy.
The named plaintiff is Katie McConnell, the owner of a 2007 Saturn Ion Coupe. The lawsuit is seeking at least $350 million in damages, according to the lawyer that filed the lawsuit, Steve Berman of Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro.
The lawsuit said the "old" GM knew about the ignition problems as early as 2001, but continued to make and market defective vehicles until 2007. The new GM continued the deception, the lawsuit alleged.
As a result, the new GM should be liable "for the deceptive and unfair acts and omissions" of the old GM, the lawsuit said. It also said the court should waive the statute of limitations for older claims because of GM's actions.
"While civil in nature, we believe it is a step toward holding G.M. accountable for its inaction," Berman said in a statement.
The recall over the ignition problem, which has been linked to at least 12 deaths, has led to government criminal and civil investigations, an internal probe by GM, and preparations for hearings by Congress. All ask why GM took so long to address a problem it has said first came to its attention in 2001.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140319
SYMBOL = JPM
JPMorgan is selling its physical commodities business to Mercuria for $3.5 billion, the U.S. bank said on Wednesday, sweeping the fast-growing Swiss trading house into the top league of commodities traders.
The all-cash transaction for one of the most powerful oil and metals desks on Wall Street is expected to close in the third quarter, JPMorgan said in a statement.
In documents circulated to potential buyers last year, JPMorgan had valued its physical commodity business at $3.3 billion, with an annual income of $750 million. JPMorgan paid nearly $2 billion to buy the largest part of the business from RBS in 2010.
JPMorgan decided to sell its multibillion-dollar physical commodities division last year because of rising regulatory and political pressure, and so it could concentrate on the bank's core business of lending.
"Our goal from the outset was to find a buyer that was interested in preserving the value of JPMorgan's physical business," said Blythe Masters, head of JPMorgan's global commodities business.
JPMorgan said it would still provide traditional banking activities in commodities markets, including financial products and the vaulting and trading of precious metals.
It gave no further details of what exactly would be included in the transaction, but a source close to the matter said the bank's metal brokerage business including its London Metal Exchange (LME) ring dealing team would remain with JPMorgan.
However its Henry Bath metals warehousing unit was included in the deal, the source added.
JPMorgan also has sizeable power, natural gas and carbon trading desks, largely operating from London, as well as owning power plants.
FATE OF JPMORGAN EMPLOYEES
The fate of JPMorgan's Masters was too early to tell, the source said, adding that she and her management team had been primarily focused on achieving the sale.
Others in the commodities units were waiting to hear about their future.
"It will be interesting to see whether Mercuria will want to keep us on or not, and whether they will attempt to move our desks to Geneva," one trader with the bank said.
"Most of us want to stay here (in London), so I suspect a drive to move us to Geneva would equate to a reduction of our power and gas trading desks," the trader added.
Many other banks, including Deutsche Bank (DBKGn.DE), Bank of America Merrill Lynch (BAC.N) and Barclays (BARC.L), have recently scaled back or shut down their power, gas and carbon trading desks, citing unfavorable banking regulation as the main reason.
In February, Reuters reported that Mercuria, led by two former Goldman Sachs (GS.N) executives Marco Dunand and Daniel Jaeggi, became the front-runner to buy the physical commodities unit, one of the most powerful oil and metals desks on Wall Street.
EXCLUSIVE TALKS
The bank went into exclusive talks with Mercuria in February. In the weeks before that, the trade house had been competing with Australian bank Macquarie Group (MQG.AX) and private equity manager Blackstone Group LP (BX.N) to buy JPMorgan's unit, sources had said.
Private and lightly regulated trading houses have benefited most from a major retreat by banks from commodities trading over the past two years.
Companies such as Glencore (GLEN.L) and Russian oil major Rosneft hired whole teams of traders from banks such as Morgan Stanley (MS.N) but Mercuria will become the first trading house to absorb an entire physical division from a bank.
Following the news on Wednesday, Democratic U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown, who has been a staunch critic of Wall Street's physical commodity activities, renewed his call for U.S. regulators to clamp down on banks' ownership of metals warehouses, oil pipelines and other commodity assets.
"Today's news is a welcome development, but this does not let regulators off the hook," Brown said in a statement.
"The Fed, CFTC, and others must enact robust reforms to Wall Street's physical commodities activities and do more to protect end users and consumers of aluminum and other materials."
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140319
SYMBOL = CVX
Chevron Corp is seeking $32.3 million in legal fees from Steven Donziger and others who this month who were found by a judge to have used fraud to obtain a multibillion-dollar pollution judgment against Chevron in Ecuador.
In a filing late on Tuesday, Chevron asked a federal court in New York to order Donziger, a Harvard-educated lawyer, to reimburse it for the cost of bringing its racketeering case against him.
Morgan Crinklaw, a spokesman for Chevron, said the company was attempting to hold Donziger accountable for bringing what he called a fraudulent case in Ecuador.
A lawyer for Donziger, Deepak Gupta, said Chevron's "eye-popping" fee request was a "transparent attempt" to intimidate anyone who might be thinking of suing the company for wrongdoing.
On March 4, U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan found that Donziger used bribery and extortion to win the case in Ecuador, which was brought on behalf of people whose land was polluted by Texaco between 1964 and 1992. Chevron later acquired Texaco.
Kaplan found that Donziger bribed the Ecuadorean judge who oversaw the case and who issued an $18 billion judgment against Chevron in 2011. Ecuador's high court cut that award to $9.5 billion last year.
Kaplan's ruling, which followed a six-week non-jury trial in New York, bars Donziger and the villagers from attempting to collect on the judgment in the United States. Chevron has said it would seek to use the ruling to bolster challenges to attempts by the villagers to go after its assets in other countries.
Chevron's fee request came the same day as Donziger appealed the March 4 ruling by Kaplan and asked him to put his order on hold while the appeals court considered the case.
In its court filing Tuesday, Chevron said the $32.3 million in fees included 36,837 hours billed by its lawyers at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher. Randy Mastro, the lead lawyer for Chevron, most recently billed at a rate of $1,140 an hour, the filings show.
Mastro was hired in January by New Jersey Governor Chris Christie to conduct an internal inquiry into the scandal involving lane closings at George Washington Bridge.
Chevron's fee request also reflected 139,747 hours billed by contract attorneys at Huron Consulting Group and Merrill Communications, which provided document review and other tasks, Chevron said.
Chevron's Crinklaw declined Wednesday to say how much Chevron had spent overall in litigation over pollution in Ecuador. The company in court papers said the $32.3 million does not reflect all the work performed in connection with the racketeering case.
"Chevron is seeking to hold Mr. Donziger accountable for his actions by pursuing an award for the legal costs incurred in defending the company from his extortionate scheme and in prosecuting our successful RICO suit," Crinklaw said.
Gupta, Donziger's lawyer, said Donziger could not pay the fees.
"Steven is a solo environmental lawyer who works from the kitchen table of his apartment," Gupta said. "Chevron knows he can't actually pay those fees -- and that's the point."
The case is Chevron Corp v. Steven Donziger et al, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, No. 11-0691.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140312
SYMBOL = GM
General Motors Co waited more than two weeks to expand a major recall to include the Saturn Ion and other compact cars, even though its engineers were aware of four fatalities in crashes involving the model, GM said in filings published on Wednesday.
In an amended submission to the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, GM also said it had identified an issue with the ignition switch, the central failing in the recall of more than 1.6 million cars, in 2001 preproduction testing on the Ion.
That is three years earlier than the company previously had reported. Before Wednesday, GM had said that it became aware of the problem in 2004, in the Chevrolet Cobalt.
GM says the switch has been connected with at least 34 crashes and is linked to at least 12 deaths. Congress, regulators and GM itself are investigating why it took the company so long to recall the cars.
GM issued its first recall of more than 600,000 Chevrolet Cobalts on Feb 7 of this year. On Feb 25 it expanded the recall by nearly 750,000 vehicles to include the Ion and several other compact models that shared the faulty ignition switch that could cause the engine to shut down and disable the airbags, sometimes at high speed.
Asked why GM had waited before expanding the recall, a spokesman on Wednesday told Reuters the company had decided to conduct a "more in-depth analysis" of vehicles listed in previous communications with car dealers. That led to the second round of the recall.
A GM document released earlier on Wednesday said that even after the vehicles in its ignition-switch recall are repaired, owners should avoid weighing down their key rings with anything more than the key and fob.
Also on Wednesday, U.S. Senator Claire McCaskill said a Senate subcommittee plans to hold a hearing in early April on GM's recall.
"We have to get to the bottom of this," said McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat. "We need to find out who dropped ball and put millions of Americans at risk."
The failure is believed to be caused when weight on the ignition key, road conditions or some other jarring event causes the ignition switch to move out of the "run" position, turning off the engine and most of the car's electrical components mid-drive, with sometimes catastrophic results.
GM said in an earlier filing Wednesday that it will offer loaner cars in some cases to unhappy owners affected by the recall.
The company also said it is not buying back affected vehicles if owners ask for that, but is offering a $500 cash allowance, through April 30, to buy a 2013, 2014 or 2015 model-year vehicle.
On Tuesday, a source said federal prosecutors have opened a probe of GM, examining whether the company is criminally liable for failing to properly disclose problems with some of its vehicles that led to the recall.
PARALLEL PROBES
The New York office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation is involved in the probe, a source familiar with the matter told Reuters on Wednesday.
The federal probe by the FBI and the U.S. attorney in Manhattan adds to a growing list of U.S. authorities examining the recall.
McCaskill said the Senate Commerce Committee's consumer protection subcommittee will examine the responses of GM and the federal traffic safety administration, NHTSA to the discovery of faulty ignition switches. She told Reuters that the congressional probe is "more challenging" now that the Justice Department also has opened its own investigation.
"While we would like to get as much information as possible and have General Motors as witnesses," McCaskill said her panel's review is "really about how NHTSA has handled this and what are the challenges that NHTSA faces in being an effective cop on the beat."
She said she has concerns about whether NHTSA had insufficient expertise and also about a lack of transparency at the agency. She did not know which GM executives would be called to testify.
Safety advocates have criticized NHTSA for failing to catch the GM issue and failing to demand a recall despite tracking the problems at different points over the past decade.
Kelley Blue Book senior analyst Karl Brauer said NHTSA's lack of action suggests the agency's own review process may be ineffective despite changes made after the high-profile Ford-Firestone tire recall in 2000.
However, NHTSA's chief said U.S. auto-safety regulators did not force GM to recall the cars sooner because the connection between defective ignition switches and failing airbags was not clear.
"If we had that information, if GM had provided us with timely information, we would have been able to take a different course with this," David Friedman, acting administrator for NHTSA, told Bloomberg on Wednesday in Washington.
Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx told reporters in Washington on Wednesday that he had a "high level of confidence" in NHTSA, "but we'll continue watching as facts unfold and see where we are."
Foxx said his department is having a "dialogue" with the U.S. Department of Justice about the GM recall. "They're looking at the same information we're looking at. They will make that determination."
The U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee also has ordered GM and NHTSA to turn over information about the automaker's ignition-switch problems. [ID:nL2N0M81N6] A House committee aide said on Wednesday that while the Justice probe may complicate what information can be received, the committee expects NHTSA and GM to comply with information requests.
GM has declined to comment on news of the criminal probe, but has said it is cooperating on all the various probes.
"We are fully cooperating with NHTSA and will do so with the Congress, too," GM spokesman Greg Martin said in an email on Wednesday. "We welcome the opportunity to help both parties have a full understanding of the facts."
GM faces a fine of up to $35 million from NHTSA, and several analysts have estimated the recall could cost the company $70 million to $280 million.
The automaker has not disclosed what the recall will cost. Analysts agreed that the biggest costs could come from lawsuits likely to result from the recall and probe.
Barclays analyst Brian Johnson said in a research note that Tuesday's 5 percent stock decline was "overdone" as the $3.2 billion hit to the company's market cap was likely well above any potential settlements with the U.S. Department of Justice, state attorneys general and plaintiffs' lawyers.
However, Johnson added that it was unclear what might make the stock rise in coming months as continued media headlines were likely to weigh heavily on GM shares.
GM shares fell 0.9 percent to close at $34.86 on the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140312
SYMBOL = C
Citigroup Inc has reduced the annual compensation of high-ranking executive Manuel Medina-Mora following problems with controls against money laundering at the Mexico subsidiary he oversees.
Medina-Mora, 63 and co-president of Citigroup, was paid $9.5 million in total compensation for 2013, according to a proxy statement filed by the company on Wednesday. That was down from the $11 million he received for 2012, which was reported in last year's filing.
The latest filing said that a factor in Medina-Mora's pay was control issues at Banamex USA. Last year, regulators sanctioned that unit of Citigroup's Mexican bank for lax controls against money laundering. The same unit is the subject of a federal criminal investigation over money laundering, Citigroup disclosed earlier this month.
Citigroup's board of directors, which issued the filing ahead of it the company's annual meeting April 22, also said it may cut 2014 pay and claw back some prior compensation because of a $400 million loan fraud at Banamex in Mexico that was disclosed February 28.
Citigroup said it discovered the fraud in loans to Oceanografia, a supplier to Pemex, the state-owned oil company of Mexico. The loans were based on invoices Oceanografia said it was owed by Pemex, but Citigroup found that the invoices were not valid.
Citigroup has said it is continuing to investigate how the fraud happened and that it has gone to law enforcement authorities with information in hope that a criminal action against the perpetrators will increase its chances of recovering some of its losses.
Future paycuts and clawbacks for the loss in Mexico will be considered as the company carries on its review of the fraud, the filing said. The company has already reduced variable compensation for Banamex employees by $40 million as a direct result of the loss, the filing noted.
The company has been reviewing other loans to suppliers, which total $14 billion worldwide, and believes the losses on the Oceanografia loans are an "isolated" event.
Medina-Mora came to Citigroup through its purchase of Banamex in 2001. While continuing to oversee the Mexican operations, he has risen to also become the CEO of Citigroup's Global Consumer Banking unit, which is essentially half of the company.
Medina-Mora is known to many in the bank as "Mr. Mexico" because of his history with the franchise and his standing in his home country as chairman of the Mexico's second-biggest bank.
Medina-Mora declined to comment through a Citigroup spokesman.
James Forese, who is Citigroup's other co-president, was paid $14 million for 2013, his first year with the title and with responsibility for all of Citigroup's corporate, capital markets and investment banking businesses, according to the new filing.
CEO Michael Corbat was paid $14.5 million, up from $11.5 million, according to the new and previous year's filings. Corbat became CEO in October 2012 when directors ousted Vikram Pandit from the post.
Chief Financial Officer John Gerspach's compensation rose to $7.5 million from $7 million, according to the filings.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140310
SYMBOL = MCD
McDonald's Corp (MCD.N) on Monday reported a bigger-than-expected drop in comparable global sales for February, hurt again by slow business in the United States.
The world's biggest restaurant chain by revenue said worldwide sales at restaurants open at least 13 months fell 0.3 percent last month. That was below analysts' average estimate for a fall of 0.1 percent, according to Consensus Metrix.
U.S. same-restaurant sales fell 1.4 percent, worse than the 0.6 percent decline that analysts had forecast.
McDonald's Chief Financial Officer Pete Bensen said in a press release that the unchanged global comparable sales so far this year "will pressure margins" in the first quarter.
McDonald's has reported nearly two years of turbulent sales at established U.S. restaurants amid sluggish economic growth, increased competition and internal missteps that have complicated its menus and slowed service.
That performance is heaping pressure on Don Thompson, the chief executive of McDonald's since July 2012, who will face new challenges this year.
Beef prices are hovering near record highs and expected to keep climbing. Labor costs also are increasing: several states have raised their minimum wage this year.
Thompson said in a statement that McDonald's is "intent on improving our business performance." McDonald's said it is trying to draw more customers by improving customer service and menu changes.
McDonald's is doubling down on breakfast and coffee to defend its No. 1 position in the United States as Starbucks Corp (SBUX.O) debuts new breakfast sandwiches and Yum Brands' (YUM.N) Taco Bell chain gets into the game with food like waffle tacos.
McDonald's again blamed the intense cold and snow that hit large parts of the country, but analysts have been quick to point out that McDonald's less-affluent U.S. patrons are still getting pinched by sluggish job growth and stagnant wages.
In Europe, the company's biggest market by revenue, restaurant sales last month rose 0.6 percent. Sales were down 2.6 percent in the Asia Pacific, the Middle East and Africa (APMEA) region.
Analysts looked for Europe to be down 0.1 percent and for APMEA to drop 1.1 percent. Sales in Britain and France led the way in Europe, while poor business in Japan weighed down sales in Asia.
McDonald's shares were down 0.4 percent Monday morning.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140306
SYMBOL = GE
General Electric Co said on Thursday it will stop paying its senior executives dividends on stock awards that have not yet vested, after investors urged the company to end the long-held perk.
The move, which affects only new stock awards and not old ones, comes amid growing scrutiny by shareholders of senior executive pay, which has been on the rise for years even as average Americans' salaries plateau. The dividends can add up to millions of dollars for executives with long tenure.
"The change is in response to investor feedback," GE spokesman Seth Martin said. He declined to elaborate.
GE's policy change affects only stock awards granted this year and beyond, the company disclosed this week in its annual proxy statement. That means some executives will continue to receive big dividend checks on stock awarded in previous years, but which has not vested.
Vice Chairman Keith Sherin, for example, will continue to receive dividends over the next decade on 191,250 shares of restricted stock that he doesn't own, or which is unvested, until his 65th birthday in 2023, according to GE disclosures.
GE had been paying dividends on unvested restricted stock for years. But the company was not able to say when the practice began.
While GE and other companies move away from paying dividends on unvested stock, Apple Inc is picking up where they left off, but with a twist. Executives at Apple accrue dividends on restricted stock, but don't get the payouts until shares vest, according to its latest proxy.
SERIOUS MONEY
Four senior GE executives - Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey Bornstein and Vice Chairmen Daniel Heintzelman, John Rice and Keith Sherin - have a combined 1.04 million shares of unvested restricted stock, according to GE's latest proxy.
At GE's annual dividend payout of 88 cents a share, those executives in 2014 are in line to receive a combined $914,000 on stock they don't own.
"It's like you or me getting paid a dividend on GE stock that we're just thinking about buying," said Paul Hodgson, a corporate governance expert and a partner in BHJ Partners, in Camden, Maine.
Vesting or ownership of restricted stock is typically tied to time in service and meeting performance goals. U.S. companies use restricted stock to retain executives and to motivate them to do well.
The dividend payouts have not received as much attention as other forms of executive compensation. They pale in comparison to some of the big-ticket bonus and stock option awards that grab headlines.
Still, the dividends can amount to a handsome annuity that can extend over decades.
Just ask GE's Sherin.
In September 2003, for example, Sherin received 125,000 shares of restricted stock. A quarter of that award, or 31,250 shares, won't vest until Sherin turns 65 on November 15, 2023, according to U.S. regulatory filings.
That means Sherin is set to receive dividends for a total of about 20 years on stock he doesn't actually own. Since the initial award, he has received about $270,000 in dividend equivalents on those 31,250 shares of unvested stock, according to GE disclosures.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140306
SYMBOL = F
Ford Motor Co (F.N) Chief Executive Alan Mulally was awarded performance bonuses for 2013 worth $13.8 million, the No. 2 U.S. automaker disclosed to U.S. regulators on Thursday.
The amount Mulally makes from the restricted stock he received depends on its value on the day he sells it. The shares were worth $13.83 million based on Thursday's closing price of $15.67.
Ford said Mulally, 68, who is credited with reviving the Detroit-area automaker's fortunes after arriving in 2006, also received $3.3 million of shares after taxes, which vest fully this week, based on 2011 equity awards.
Mulally now owns Ford common stock worth $96.9 million at Thursday's closing price.
In January, Mulally removed himself from the running to become the next CEO of Microsoft Corp after months of speculation, and he reaffirmed plans to stay at Ford through the end of this year.
Mulally's 2013 restricted stock award is 882,352 shares. The restricted awards Ford made to Mulally and other top executives this week convert to common stock on March 4, 2016, according to a company filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Bill Ford Jr., the company's executive chairman, was awarded restricted stock for 2013 work that was worth $6.45 million on Thursday. He also received $1.6 million of shares after taxes that fully vest this week, based on 2011 equity awards.
In a statement, the company said, "We remain committed to aligning executive compensation with the company's business performance and to tying a significant portion of executive compensation to long-term shareholder value."
Mulally took Ford's helm in 2006 and spurred a cultural change that helped Ford take quicker action and make bolder bets, analysts, executives and other industry observers have said.
Ford warned in December that the cost of launching a record 23 new vehicles and a deteriorating Venezuelan economy would dent its 2014 profit.
Sixteen of those launches will be in North America, including the highly profitable F-150 full-size pickup in the fall. Getting the truck launch running smoothly is key because the vehicle accounts for the majority of Ford's North American profit.
Other details of Mulally's compensation including his 2013 salary will be released later this month. His 2012 compensation was cut by 29 percent to about $21 million, based on share values last March, that included salary, stock awards, stock options and other perks.
Mulally's pay was reduced in 2012 in part because Ford missed some key goals for market share, profit and cash flow.
GM has said CEO Mary Barra will be paid up to $14.4 million in cash and stock this year, including $10 million under the company's long-term compensation plan that is still subject to shareholder approval in June.
Mark Fields, Ford's chief operating officer, was awarded $4.6 million worth of shares for last year's work and now owns $12.8 million in common shares of the company.
Joe Hinrichs, head of North and South American operations, was awarded $2.2 million of shares for 2013 performance, and now owns $5 million in common shares in Ford.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140920
SYMBOL = SCTY
SolarCity (NASDAQ: SCTY  ) has become the dominant player in the U.S. residential solar market, and it is now eyeing the commercial solar market for future growth. Zep Solar, a racking company SolarCity acquired last year, has introduced a snap together racking product for commercial installations that the company says can improve installation efficiency the same way Zep did for residential solar.
It's a big step into a competitive commercial market and may have some interesting impacts on investors in the future.
The competitive landscape
The major challenge for SolarCity is that commercial solar is already a more competitive market than residential solar. SolarCity is often doing more education in residential solar than competing on price, and financial success has been about building a financing structure (lease) that's easily understandable for those consumers. But commercial solar has well-established competitors and far more sophisticated buyers.
SunPower (NASDAQ: SPWR  ) already has a big presence in commercial solar with over $1 billion in its project pipeline. With a high efficiency panel it's also able to squeeze more power out of a rooftop than the panels SolarCity uses.
SolarCity's commercial installation at eBay's headquarters. Image source: SolarCity
There are also companies like NRG Energy, RGS Energy, and even First Solar that likewise have their eyes on this booming market. The bottom line is that dominating commercial solar will be far harder than residential solar.
Commercial solar is a different beast than residential
On the surface, residential and commercial solar are very similar. They're both installed on rooftops at demand sources and can be owned or leased by building owners. But the commercial market is laid out very differently from residential solar and will have different impacts on SolarCity.
First, many commercial solar projects are purchased by the company commissioning them. Companies like Wal-Mart or IKEA, two of the largest commercial solar owners in the U.S., look at solar as both an energy cost savings as well as a way to take advantage of solar tax breaks. To maximize both, they're likely to buy systems in the future as solar loan and operating & maintenance options open up to the market. In residential solar, when customers lease systems these tax advantages are sold to equity investors and SolarCity owns the system for 20 years or more. This long-term ownership allows SolarCity to create around $2 per watt in estimated "retained value" over the life of a system.
Commercial solar installations are much larger, making the dollars involved more significant, and buyers are more sophisticated and can even get their own financing. SunPower has told me in the past that most commercial systems it builds for private companies are purchased for this very reason.
Wal-Mart distribution center with a SolarCity rooftop installation. Image source: SolarCity
The public sector is different because capital is less available for a school or government building who may be looking for cost savings from solar. They also don't have the same tax advantages that a third-party owner may have. So, not all commercial solar will lean toward purchases but a majority of the market will.
None of this is to say that SolarCity won't be able to compete in commercial solar; it has already done so very well, but margins won't be nearly as high. A residential solar system may generate $2 per watt in retained value for SolarCity but a commercial installation may generate $0.50-$1 per watt in gross margin. That context needs to be understood by investors.
Despite challenges, making a splash in commercial solar is absolutely the right move and a logical next step for SolarCity. This was at least a $4 billion market in the U.S. last year and it should grow 10-30% per year for the next decade.
Investors need to know that margins won't be as high in commercial solar as they are in the residential market, so retained value or margin per watt will see downward pressure as a result. That's not a bad thing; it's just the reality of entering a highly competitive market with sophisticated buyers.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140910
SYMBOL = GPS
The Gap gets downgraded by Bank of America, seeing risks to this year's outlook.
While the August sales have been disappointing, I remain upbeat about the long term prospects of the business.
Given the momentum in August, I am only a buyer on dips towards the low forties.
Investors in The Gap (NYSE:GPS) have seen their holdings under a little more pressure on Monday following a downgrade from analysts at Bank of America. This downgrade followed the disappointing sales numbers which the company released for the month of August last week.
Short term investors took some profits after a big momentum ride in August. While I like the long term potential of the business, I am still cautious avoiding to chase momentum in recent weeks, being a buyer around $42 per share.
Cautious On The Gap
Bank of America's Lorraine Hutchinson downgraded the rating on The Gap from neutral to underperform, while lowering the price target by three dollar to $42 per share.
Hutchinson expects the company to miss its own full year guidance as well as estimates by the investment community. The guidance is based on an expected turnaround from the weakness of the core Gap brand while early signs are not good yet.
Net product lines which are introduced this month at full prices are unlikely to sell well given the clearance sales in August. Hutchinson furthermore believes it is unlikely that cost control in terms of selling, general and administrative expenses can save the day.
As such third quarter earnings are now seen at $0.75 per share versus the consensus estimates at $0.83 per share. Full year earnings are seen at $2.85 per share versus consensus estimates at $2.96 per share and the company's own guidance for earnings of $2.95 to $3.00 per share.
Disappointing August Sales
On Thursday last week, Gap reported its monthly sales results. Sales for the month were flat versus last week, coming in at $1.23 billion for the four week period ending on August 30. Topline sales were flat thanks to store openings as comparable store sales were down by some 2% versus last year.
CEO Glenn Murphy is encouraged by the momentum at Old Navy, while he is not pleased with the performance at the other brands as the company is taking steps to address these issues.
The Old Navy Brand posted a 2% increase in comparable sales versus 1% growth reported last year. Disappointing was the performance at Banana Republic as comparable sales were down by 2%, while comparable store sales at Gap Global fell by a severe 6% in an improving retail environment.
The 2% fall in comparable sales for the month came as a surprise after Gap posted a 2% increase in comparable sales for the month of July.
In April of this year, Gap held its big investor meeting presentation.
The company remains committed to be the favorite apparel business for American style across the globe, which is quite an ambitious target. To achieve these growth the company has ambitious sub-targets including global growth (read China), omni-channel operations, a responsive supply chain and seamless inventory movements.
The company stresses the growth in operations in recent years amidst high shareholder payout while shedding a lot of floor space in North America in an effort to transfer the business. The company has made quite some achievements already in these sub-targets as it generates $2.3 billion in online sales. This implies that roughly one in seven dollars of sales are being made online. Chinese sales currently run at just $300 million per annum, anticipated to increase towards a billion three years from now.
Towards the end of August, Gap posted its second quarter earnings report. Gap holds little over $1.5 billion in cash and equivalents, while the total debt position of nearly $1.4 billion results in a modest net cash position.
With 434 million shares outstanding, and shares having fallen back towards $44 per share, equity in the business is valued at $19.1 billion. Based on trailing sales of $16.3 billion and earnings of $1.24 billion, equity is valued at 1.2 times annual sales and 15-16 times annual earnings.
Stagnant Sales Accompanied By Shareholder Returns As Gap Focuses On Growth
Over the past decade, Gap has posted stagnant sales at around $16-$17 billion, although sales have been trending up in recent years after posting sales of just $14.2 billion in 2010.
The company has remained solidly profitable, posting sales at around a billion on average although earnings have been improving recently towards one and a quarter billion. Yet the real bonus came from Gap retiring 55% of its outstanding share base over the past decade. This implies that sales have grown at around 7-8% per annum on a per share basis despite the stagnant operations.
The strategy as outlined to investors earlier this year clearly calls for a focus on growth again, notably in omni-channel operations and abroad. This comes after North American store closures appear to be a thing of the past.
I must say that I was unpleasantly surprised by undoubtedly weak sales results for the month of August which came just after the solid results for July and the upbeat outlook issued at the second quarter earnings report.
That being said, I don't necessarily share the bearish stance of analysts at Bank of America given the solid strategy, the very strong long term track record, the fair valuation, solid balance sheet and appalling dividends.
As such shares offer long term appeal in my eyes although shares have seen quite some momentum throughout August on the back of a broad-based recovery in retail stocks. Shares have risen from $40 to $46 that month, for impressive 15% returns. Shares have now fallen back towards $44 on the back of the sales results for August.
Given the recent outperformance I am still cautious to chase the momentum bandwagon, as I feel perfectly comfortable paying 14 times earnings, or about $42 per share to pick up a position in this quality name.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140910
SYMBOL = KKD
For the quarter, Krispy Kreme beat analyst forecasts on the top line but fell short when it came to earnings, sending shares down 4% on Sep. 10.
The biggest issue for the business was its cost structure, which rose year-over-year.
Despite the fact that earnings were down, Krispy Kreme's growing sales and long-term growth indicates that it provides investors with a lot of potential opportunity moving forward.
Shares of Krispy Kreme Doughnuts (NYSE:KKD) fell 4% in afternoon trading on Sept. 10 following news the day prior that the coffee and doughnut chain beat sales forecasts but fell short on profits year-over-year. Despite the fact that the business has had a pretty nice run in recent years, this performance should make investors question whether or not the company makes sense from a fundamental perspective.
Mixed forecasts are a concern
For the quarter, Krispy Kreme reported revenue of $120.52 million. In addition to coming in higher than the $118.13 million analysts anticipated, the company's top line was 7% greater than the $112.73 million management reported the same quarter a year earlier. According to Krispy Kreme's press release, this jump in revenue was driven largely by a 3% increase in store count but was negatively impacted by a 1% drop in comparable store sales in the business's international franchise base.
Although management reported some nice numbers on the top line, it's the bottom line that shareholders are taking issue with. For the quarter, Krispy Kreme reported earnings per share of $0.08, $0.01 higher than last year's number. After adjusting for some non-GAAP measures, profits for the quarter came in at $0.13. On top of being lower than the $0.14 reported last year, the company's adjusted profits fell far short of the $0.16 analysts anticipated. Despite the fact that sales were higher for the year, Krispy Kreme was hurt by rising costs, primarily stemming from the business's direct operating expenses, which rose from 83.2% of sales to 83.9% and its general and administrative expenses, which jumped from 5% of sales to 5.6%.
In recent years, Krispy Kreme has had a pretty impressive run. Between 2009 and 2013, the coffee and doughnut chain saw its revenue climb 33% from $346.52 million to $460.33 million. Based on its most recent annual report, this increase in sales appears to have been driven largely by a 42% increase in store count (most of this growth coming from franchised locations).
Looking at profits, the business has been even better. During the past five years, net income has risen from a net loss of $157,000 to a gain of $34.26 million. To some extent, this growth can be attributed to higher sales but investors would be wise to consider that margin improvement has also been pivotal in Krispy Kreme's success. Between 2009 and 2013, the company's direct operating expenses fell from 86% of sales to 81.7%, while its general and administrative expenses dropped from 6.6% of sales to 5.5%, both of these adding significantly to the company's bottom line.
Based on the data provided, investors aren't too happy about Krispy Kreme's results, but it looks as though Mr. Market might be taking the situation a bit far. Yes, profits did fall year-over-year but revenue beat forecasts. Add to this that the past five years have demonstrated attractive growth for the company and it looks as though this may be nothing more than a bump in the road.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140910
SYMBOL = SWHC
Smith & Wesson has seen a massive sell-off since its 52 week high in June.
Despite declining revenue and net income, the company should increase its cash holdings by over $40 million by the end of FY15.
An aggressive buyback program has effectively removed over 20% of outstanding shares since the end of 2012.
Smith & Wesson (NASDAQ:SWHC) shares have dropped over 20% since reporting FY1Q15 earnings on August 26, 2014 and down nearly 40% from its 52 week high on June 10, 2014. Weakening consumer demand, a sharp decline in revenue and increasing inventories are the major culprits for this sell-off. The bad news of decreased demand and high inventories are peaking just as the industry is hitting its weakest selling season of the year. As bad of a quarter as Smith and Wesson had in FY1Q15, FY2Q15 may be even worse. The good news is the company is still very profitable, the balance sheet is improving and a strong share buyback program sets the stock up for a quick rebound when inventories return to normal and demand picks back up.
Net sales decreased $39.2 million from the first quarter last year due primarily from lower sales of long guns, including modern sporting rifles, which drove 87% of the first quarter decline. Sales of small concealed handguns remained strong, but were offset by lower demand for large frame pistols. Inventory replenishment after the last customer surge in firearm purchasing has led to unfavorably high levels across the entire industry and across all product lines. Because of the high inventory build and entering the historically weak sales during the summer months, the company lowered overall guidance for FY 2015. Smith & Wesson now estimates 2Q15 sales around $100-$110 million with EPS of $0.04 - $0.08. For the full fiscal year 2015, revenue was lowered to $530 - $540 million down from $585 - $600 million. FY2015 EPS were also guided down from $1.30 - $1.40 to $0.89 - $0.94. This guidance results in a roughly 15% decline in revenue and 40% decline in EPS. Clearly there is a reason for the sell-off in the stock price to around $10/share. The next three months will bring more pain and the potential for the stock to fall another 10% to around $9.00 - $9.50. However, for the patient investor with at least a 12-18 month timeframe, I believe there are enough positives within the company to establish a position at current levels.
Smith & Wesson is still a profitable company with solid fundamentals and a strong market presence. The company has significantly improved its cash position to $83.5 million, up $14.5 million from last quarter. Management has also stated they plan to scale back capital expenses for the year to $35 million and expect its total cash position to improve to $125 million by the end of FY 2015. With a current market cap around $550 million, the cash position will represent nearly 25% of the stock by fiscal year end. This is an impressive feat considering its drastic cut in projected revenue and EPS.
The company also has a fairly light debt load that is extremely manageable during the market downturn. The company has not borrowed on its $75 million line of credit and has $175 million in outstanding notes issued in 2 tranches. The first tranche is $100 million with interest rates at 5%, 7%, and 8% due in 2017. The second tranche was issued during the last quarter with an interest rate of 5% due in 2018. The note also has a 2 year no call provision that expires in 2016. The second tranche will allow management to consider additional share repurchases or vertical integration.
Perhaps the biggest value to shareholders has been the company's extremely aggressive share buyback program started at the end of 2012. During FY 1Q15, the company repurchased 2.1 million shares for $30 million. Since December 2012, the company has repurchased a total of 14.4 million shares at an average price of approximately $11.50 for a total stock buyback of $165 million and a reduction in float of 21.7%. A 21% buyback yield over 18 months is about as aggressive as investors will find in the market. The 21% reduction in shares means every dollar of profit is roughly 20% more valuable for shareholders. If Smith & Wesson had not undertaken this strategy, the current market conditions would have been far worse on shareholders and made the recovery much longer.
Comparing Smith & Wesson to major competitor, Sturm, Ruger & Co., Smith & Wesson appears to be trading at a discount. Both companies saw negative quarter-over-quarter growth, but each company has its advantages. Ruger has no debt load and an attractive dividend and Smith & Wesson is trading at a discount when looking across a wide variety of financial metrics. This gives further validity to value being created in Smith & Wesson with the recent sell-off.
Smith & Wesson is entering a perfect storm of bad news as high inventories are being seen across the entire industry at a time of seasonal weakness. This will likely result in steep discounts across a wide product range and reduce margins for FY 2Q15. However, a strong buyback program, clean balance sheet, attractive valuations compared to market peers and increasing cash holdings should result in returned strength over the long term. When consumer demand returns during the seasonal peak during FY 3Q15 and 4Q15, the stock could surge at least 20-30% in the near term to $12-$13/share. At levels around $10/share, there is sufficient downside protection, but additional bad news over the next quarter could drop its price to around $9/share. The string of bad quarterly results has been priced in, for the most part, and set up the company for extremely favorable quarterly comparisons in FY 1Q16 and FY 2Q16. Investors with at least a 12 month investment horizon could be greatly rewarded for getting in at current levels.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140910
SYMBOL = PANW
Palo Alto Networks reports accelerating growth and GAAP losses.
Investors cheer about the continued growth and solid outlook.
I wonder what the real growth would be if the company would not excessively spend on sales and marketing efforts.
The risk-reward is not too appealing in my eyes with many valuation questions left unanswered.
Investors in Palo Alto Networks (NYSE:PANW) have been very pleased with the performance of the enterprise security solutions provider over the past quarter.
The company's performance blew out in terms of reported revenue growth which is actually accelerating at already high percentages. While the company continues to perform, in a very appealing industry segment, I wonder what the sustainable growth rate and profit potential of the business is.
Amidst this premium valuation the risk-reward potential is not too appealing in my defensive eyes as an investment carries a greater deal of risk. So far this year investors have been well-compensated for this above-average risk, yet the question is whether this continues going forward.
Strong End To The Year
Palo Alto Networks posted fiscal fourth quarter sales of $178.2 million, a 59% increase versus last year. Sales came in far ahead of consensus estimates at $161.3 million.
On a GAAP basis, Palo Alto posted net losses of $32.1 million, a near doubling versus the $15.8 million loss as reported last year. On a per share basis losses came in at $0.41 per share.
Based on non-GAAP accounting the company posted earnings of $0.11 per share, a four cent improvement versus last year. Non-GAAP earnings came in line with expectations.
Looking Into The Growing Sales And Losses
CEO Mark McLaughlin was very pleased by the solid quarter with growth accelerating on the back of continued adoption of the company's unique enterprise security platform. Fourth quarter sales growth of 59% on an annual basis implied a real acceleration of the reported full year growth rate of 51%.
Growth was driven by both product and service sales. Product revenues of $99.7 million were up by a little over 52% versus last year as service sales rose by a little over 67% versus last year.
Overall gross margins of 72.7% of sales were actually down by some 40 basis points versus last year, but still results in very comfortable gross margins.
Operating expenses were up sharply however as they outpaced reported sales growth. Expenses rose by a little over 74%, now making up 87.0% of sales which compares to 79.2% of sales last year. Notably sales and marketing expenses were up sharply while research and development expense growth outpaced topline sales growth as well.
As a result operating losses quadrupled toward $25.5 million as net losses came in even higher on the back of $1.8 million in interest payments and $5.6 million in other losses.
For the current first quarter, Palo Alto Networks anticipates sales to come in between $178 and $182 million which represents a 39-42% growth on an annual basis.
Non-GAAP earnings are seen at around $0.12 per share, which would result in a penny improvement on a sequential basis, being based on an anticipated 83-85 million shares outstanding. While analysts anticipated earnings of $0.12 per share as well, they forecasted sales of just $173.9 million for the upcoming quarter.
Investors are comforted by billings being reported in the second quarter with total billings of $232.9 million resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of 1.30 times. This just adds to the backlog of deferred revenues which now exceeds the half a billion mark.
Palo Alto Networks ended the quarter and year with nearly a billion in cash, equivalents and investments. The debt position consists out of nearly $470 million in convertible debt, assuming that debt will not be converted. This results in a net cash position of about $500 million at the moment.
With nearly 78 million diluted shares outstanding at the moment, and shares trading at $93 per share, equity in Palo Alto is valued at $7.2 billion which values operating assets at around $6.7 billion.
This values operating assets at a little over 11 times annual revenues of $598 million. Reported non-GAAP earnings totaled just $32 million which results in a non-meaningful earnings multiple. This as net losses came in at $226 million for the past year on the back of large stock-based compensation expenses and $160 million in litigation charges.
Runaway Growth
Palo Alto continues its streak of blowout growth numbers, with fourth quarter growth actually accelerating versus the reported growth for the entire year.
Since the calendar year ending in the summer of 2010, revenues have risen from merely $50 million to about $600 million at the moment. With the exception of 2012, when the company posted essentially break-even results, the company has been posting increasing losses along the way. Given the solid balance sheet, this does not result in any financial concerns at the moment. Raising fresh capital in this environment provides no difficulties for firms like Palo Alto with investors being happy to throw money in this hot area of the market.
Shares of Palo Alto have only been traded on the public stock exchange since July of 2012 when shares were sold to the general public at $42 per share. Shares quickly rose to $70 following the offering to fall back to lows of $40 in 2013. Following some high profile breaches of consumer data, highlighting the needs to improve security, Palo Alto has been on a momentum ride this year.
Of course this all started with the data breach of Target (NYSE:TGT) around the turn of the year which most likely is the most prominent breach witnessed so far. This momentum has pushed shares to fresh all-time highs with shares already being up over 50% this year.
Shareholder dilution continues to be an issue amidst the potential for further dilution following the recently issued convertible bonds as well as steep share based compensation. Palo Alto paid out $33 million in stock-based compensation in the past quarter and nearly a hundred million over the past year. With some 1,550 working being employed currently, this comes down to an average compensation of about $65k per annum for the past year.
Back in May of this year, I last had a look at the prospects for the shares following the third quarter results when shares traded just around $75 per share. Ever since shares have risen some 20% on continued high profile data breaches including that of JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM) and Home Depot (NYSE:HD) in recent weeks.
Clearly its services and products are in huge demand, carrying very lucrative margins. The question is however why sales and marketing costs continue to outpace sales growth, which makes it hard to figure out what the real growth would be at more sustainable costs levels. Also it is still unknown how profitable the business could become. While gross margins are impressive, it is to be seen what sustainable GAAP operating margins could come in at going forward.
As such I continue to be in doubt about somewhat justifiable revenue multiples amidst the rapid growth and very strong gross margins. That being said, just how much is this growth being aided by excessive spending on marketing and sales efforts, and how big could operating GAAP margins really become in the future?
While I like the growth, the business and growth prospects, many of my questions continue to be unanswered making the risk-reward not appealing in my more defensive eyes.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140910
SYMBOL = ARNA
Why Arena is one of the best value investments in biotech.
Update on the obesity market.
Belviq lifecycle and Arena pipeline advancement.
It has been some time since I have written an article covering Arena Pharmaceuticals (NASDAQ:ARNA), and I have recently received inquiries asking if I still believe in the company and the prospects for its lead drug, Belviq. Given the stock is hitting 52-week lows, despite positive developments with the fundamental story, long-time investors are questioning whether or not they should remain invested in the equity. Since approval in July 2012, Arena has given back close to 70% of its peak value. Not exactly what investors planned to see with this investment after Belviq became the first novel obesity drug approved in a decade. So is Arena worth keeping in your portfolio? In this article, I'll detail why now, more than ever, Arena could be the best value investment for a long-term biotech buy and hold.
The Growing Obesity Market
Probably the biggest disappointment for obesity drug investors has been the difficulties in having the medical community start treating obesity as a disease, despite the American Medical Association's recommendations. In addition to the AMA, the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists now recommends weight loss therapy as a first-line recommendation for treating pre-diabetes. This is important, because in Belviq's case, it has been shown to reduce a pre-diabetic's risk of progressing to full-blown diabetes by 38%.
As disappointing as the pace is by which practitioners are starting to prescribe weight loss therapies, the market is growing and will continue to grow. These major shifts in how diseases are treated take time to become mainstream. It can take years and not months, but it is happening. In the case of Belviq, the number of unique prescribers has tripled to 50,000. Most of these doctors are trying it on 1 or 2 patients and seeing how it works. That is a start, and as physicians get more comfortable with it, they will broaden the prescriber base. The value statement is pretty simple, and that is to try it on anyone who qualifies, to see if they respond to it. Not everyone responds, but a subset does, and isn't it in their benefit to find those responders? You know within 12 weeks, so why not try it, because those who respond go on to lose 10% or more of their weight.
The main factor we see in patient conversion is insurance coverage. For Belviq, 70% of paid prescriptions are for patients with insurance coverage for the drug. Unfortunately, only 60% of those who have commercial insurance are covered by Belviq today. Given approximately only 50% of Americans have commercial insurance, that means that about only 1/3rd of people who qualify to take Belviq have coverage. However, the Federal government has now mandated that insurance plans for Federal employees must start paying for obesity drugs, even though the same can't yet be said for Americans covered under the Affordable Care Act. In addition, the Treat & Reduce Obesity Act continues to gain support in Congress, with 112 current sponsors, and could be attached to other Fall legislation. Given the momentum in increasing insurance coverage, I think it is a reasonable estimate that most of the Americans who currently qualify on-label for Belviq, about 100M people, will mostly have coverage for it in 2017. I believe this will lead to massive growth in this space over the next 3-5 years.
Investors who follow this category also know that Orexigen's (NASDAQ:OREX) Contrave is up for approval this week, and Novo Nordisk's (NYSE:NVO) diabetes blockbuster, Victoza, has an advisory committee to evaluate if it should have a label for chronic weight management as well. I personally hope both of these alternatives are approved for this indication. I feel Contrave will face the same generic pressures that Vivus' (NASDAQ:VVUS) Qnexa has faced, and given its safety and tolerability profile, will be relegated to a second- or third-line option. Victoza will likely be given to only the morbidly obese, given it is injected and has a $9K+ a year price tag. But the more players in this space, the better, and the more pressure will be placed on payors to cover these drugs. More education will be given to the medical community on the need to treat obesity as a disease. Treating the root cause of obesity, rather than the resulting comorbidities, is a far more effective strategy and results in better quality of life for patients.
Belviq Lifecycle Management
Part of an effective brand drug management strategy is optimizing its brand lifecycle through label expansion for new indications. This strategy is now underway to expand how Belviq is prescribed, and could dramatically increase the uptake of the drug in the coming years. There are three expansion paths in play, with potentially value-inflecting data in the coming months.
The Belviq with phentermine combination study is perhaps the study with the quickest time to value for Arena and its marketing partner, Eisai. This pilot study is intended to gauge the safety of prescribing Belviq in combination with 15mg of phentermine both once- or twice-daily. The prescribers I have spoken with who have been using this combination for over a year are consistently seeing 15% patient weight loss for about half their patients who take the combination for 12 weeks. This is at least as good, and perhaps better, than what prescribers saw with the Fen-Phen combination therapy of the mid-1990s. Fen-Phen was written at a peak of 16M times a year during its heyday, prior to fenflurimine's association with heart valve problems. The Belviq + phentermine (BelPhen) study has the potential to show clinical evidence that these two drugs can be used safely together for up to 12 weeks. It is unknown if this pilot study will be sufficient to request a label change for Belviq to note this safety study, or if a follow-on trial will be required. Regardless, having this data will encourage more prescribers to use this powerful combination therapy.
Will positive results lead to a quick 16M prescriptions a year? Probably not, but it could usher in a reinvigoration of the weight loss clinic market, who would freely prescribe the combination. At $115 average script price, 16M scripts would be $1.8B and earnings of close to $3 per share for Arena, warranting a stock price over $100. I believe if you told someone looking to drop a few sizes prior to their wedding or beach season that you could take a pill for 3 months and have a good chance of losing 15% of your weight, that millions would want to do so. The probabilities of BelPhen repeating FenPhen success are much better than what is reflected in the current $4 share price. It is almost ludicrous to look at the potential for BelPhen becoming a reality in the years ahead and see a $900M market cap for Arena. However, BelPhen clinical results aren't out yet, but should be soon. Perhaps this will be a catalyst to drive more value with the equity.
The second study investors will see results for prior to the end of the year is the Phase II Smoking Cessation study with Belviq. This is a 12-week, double-blind and placebo-controlled study to evaluate Belviq's potential to be used as a smoking cessation treatment. Studies performed on animals at Duke University demonstrated that Belviq could be a powerful therapy for smoking cessation, and given it is the same addition pathways involved for humans, I expect this trial will be positive. Smoking cessation is a $2.5B global market, and Pfizer's (NYSE:PFE) Chantix was well on its way to blockbuster after its first year on the market, until it was found to cause severe physiological issues in some patients and it received a black box warning. If Belviq is shown to be as effective as Chantix, plus results in weight loss or at least weight neutrality, Belviq could own the smoking cessation market. Absolutely no value is built into Arena's market cap for this possibility. I would bet if you had a biotech with a positive Phase II trial for smoking cessation that resulted in weight neutrality and minimal side effects, the market cap of that biotech would far surpass Arena's current $900M valuation.
The Belviq long-term cardiovascular outcomes trial called CAMELLIA is well under way, and although that trial won't complete for another 4 years, a secondary measure is monitoring the benefit to prediabetics and Belviq's ability to prevent diabetes. Interim data for the conversion to diabetes should be available, and could provide an important label expansion opportunity for the treatment of prediabetes even prior to full completion of CAMELLIA. There are estimated to be 80M prediabetics in the US, and the recommended treatment is lifestyle modification. Belviq could be used as a first-line treatment for the prevention of diabetes in the years ahead, and that is a tremendous opportunity. We may also see more use of Belviq as a diabetes treatment to improve glucose control. Belviq delivers better fasting glucose reduction and better HbA1c reduction than Merck's (NYSE:MRK) $6B blockbuster Januvia.
Pipeline Advancement
Outside of the Belviq lifecycle advancement, which is a pipeline within itself, Arena is making great progress in advancing the rest of its novel pipeline. Each of the drugs in that pipeline are for blockbuster indications covering unmet medical needs. There is zero value reflected in the current valuation of Arena related to the pipeline. This should change as these drugs continue to advance.
Phase I data for Arena's ADP334 drug for Auto-Immune diseases and ADP371 for chronic pain management will both be out in the coming months. Arena's partner Il-Dong is advancing Temonagrel for the treatment of thrombotic diseases. They have completed Phase I trials, and are looking to begin a Phase 2a trial in the near term.
The most advanced drug in Arena's pipeline is ADP811, a novel oral prostacyclin agonist drug for the treatment of Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension (PAH), a life-threatening disorder. This drug recently received Orphan Drug designation, and should start Phase II trials before the end of the year. Phase II would likely be a 21-week trial, so you could see results for Phase II prior to the end of 2015. Orphan drugs who have successful Phase II programs go on to be approved 78% of the time. The leading biotech with prostacyclin receptor drugs for PAH is the Swiss biotech, Actelion. Actelion has a promising oral drug, Selexipag, similar to ADP811 that just completed a successful Phase III study. Actelion's PAH drugs have been highly profitable in the market, and have driven a $14B valuation for the company, making it a takeover target. If Actelion's Selexipag gets to approval and has a successful launch, it could provide great market data to justify a strong valuation for ADP811 with a successful Phase II program. The probability is high that Arena would look to partner this drug in the event of a positive Phase II program. Again, no value is reflected in Arena's current market cap for any future success of this program.
In summary, I think Arena is a much safer investment at $4 than it was when I recommended it in 2010 at $1.25. The US-regulatory risk is now off of the table, with compelling lifecycle plans for Belviq in a market that is in its infancy. Its pipeline is early but exciting, and demonstrates the ability for the company to bring novel drugs targeting unmet medical needs into the clinic. If Arena was a private company and looking to go public, Wall Street could justify a $3B-$5B valuation on this equity, given the fundamental story and future growth opportunities. Instead, it has the albatross of "weight loss drugs" around its neck and a target on its back. However, for investors that have the patience to buy this equity and let the story be fully told over the next 3-5 years or more, I have found no better valuation story than Arena. A novel drug for a growing market, with the profile to be a first line therapy for prediabetes, is more effective than the $6B-a-year Januvia, could have a much better profile than Chantix, for smoking cessation is worth far more than $900M. The current share price for Arena is completely disconnected to the future market opportunity ahead of it. If Belviq progresses to blockbuster into 2017, when there is full insurance coverage and possible smoking cessation label, you could see earnings over $2 a share. If BelPhen become a vanity must-have, then earnings go even higher. That level of earnings is more than enough to propel Arena's market cap to $10B or more, making today's stock price a rounding error. As always, only invest what you are comfortable and can afford to risk. This stock is not for the faint of heart or those without a great amount of risk tolerance.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140910
SYMBOL = DRI
Darden Restaurants is facing stiff competition from the meteoric rise of fast casual eateries.
The company has been going through a rough patch financially, and turmoil between management and two activist investor shareholders has grabbed headlines.
Last week, Darden Restaurants preannounced that earnings would fall between 31 cents and 33 cents per share for the quarter ending August 28.
Casual dining restaurant chains have been struggling lately, and a few of them are resorting to bizarre marketing tactics to get attention. TGI Friday’s offered its diners all-you-can-eat appetizers for 10 bucks. Gawker’s Caity Weaver decided to put Friday’s up to the test by going on a 14-hour mozzarella stick binge. According to her account, she didn’t enjoy her 7 plates of mozzarella sticks, but she also failed to find the restaurant guilty of false advertising.
The latest ridiculous casual dining sale comes from Olive Garden, a brand of Darden Restaurants (NYSE:DRI). Instead of offering unlimited appetizers for a single seating, Olive Garden is thinking bigger. Olive Garden is promoting a 7-week pass for all the carbs you can jam into your stomach. For just $100, 1,000 lucky diners had the privilege of purchasing the “Never Ending Pasta Pass,” which also includes bread sticks and Coca-Cola (NYSE:KO) brand soft drinks. The passes sold out in 45 minutes flat on Monday. Over 50 of the passes appeared on eBay by Wednesday, fetching as much as $399 a piece.
“What we’re trying to do is get some attention,” Jay Spenchian, executive vice president of marketing admitted to USA Today. “It’s sure to provoke a reaction…”
If Olive Garden’s goal was to muster attention, mission accomplished. But the self-deprecating promotion underscores one major problem universal to all of Darden’s restaurants, and they seem to be missing the point.
Giving away unlimited pasta to 1000 people might get Darden some PR, and it may be true that there is no such thing as bad PR. But Darden Restaurants is facing stiff competition from the meteoric rise of fast casual eateries. The explosive rise of chains like Chipotle (NYSE:CMG) and Panera Bread (NASDAQ:PNRA) have cut into Darden’s business and threaten the company’s future. As a result, Darden Restaurants has been going through a rough patch financially, and turmoil between management and two activist investor shareholders has grabbed headlines.
Earnings per share at Darden Restaurants have now dropped 7 quarters in a row on a year over basis (yoy). Over the past 3 quarters, profits have fallen by a minimum of 17%. In a perhaps near-sighted attempt to cut costs, CEO Clarence Otis Jr. went ahead with a $2.1 billion deal to sell the Red Lobster chain, infuriating Darden’s hedge fund investors.
The larger of the two funds, Starboard Value, has accused management of taking the easy way out rather than focusing on shareholder value. Starboard Value is leading a proxy war against Darden’s board of directors and senior management. After the sale of Red Lobster was completed on July 28, Clarence Otis Jr. announced that he would be stepping down from the helm by the end of the year. Starboard acknowledged Mr. Otis’s decision as a step in the right direction, but commented that their fund will not be satisfied until there is a majority change to the board.
Last week, Darden Restaurants preannounced that earnings would fall between 31 cents and 33 cents per share for the quarter ending August 28. If Darden reported at the top of that range (33c EPS), that would still represent a 38% drop in year over year earnings on an adjusted basis. The official earnings report is set for release on Friday, before the market opens.
Earnings are slated to drop 38%, and the Estimize community expects sales to plummet, too. Contributing analysts on Estimize are forecasting quarterly sales of just $1.611 billion, only $11 million ahead of the Wall Street consensus. If analysts on Estimize are correct, sales will drop 25% yoy.
Now that Darden has dropped Red Lobster, it’s going to rely on Olive Garden and its other smaller properties for growth. In its earnings pre-release, Darden noted that Olive Garden locations that had been remodeled saw a 10% increase in store traffic. However, the 300 locations still needing a remodeling saw an average same-restaurant sales drop of 2.1% compared to FQ1 of last year.
Casual dining chains are in a tailspin, while healthier more convenient alternatives are eating their lunch. Health is a major secular trend that is transcending the food business right now -- even Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) is getting into health monitoring with its new Apple Watch. Depending on selling cheap breadsticks and pasta in 2014 is an uphill battle, and Olive Garden is in need of some serious thought. With its new promotion, Olive Garden is doing nothing other than saying “Hey, look at us, we sell really, really cheap carbs.”
Whether it be by taking a quick look at McDonald’s (NYSE:MCD) recent sales figures or a glance in the other direction at the expansion of Whole Foods (NASDAQ:WFM) and Hain Celestial (NASDAQ:HAIN), all indicators suggest that Darden Restaurants is trying to fly its kite into a major headwind. It’s time for Olive Garden to focus on cooking with olives and ingredients from gardens, not passes to pig out on pasta.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140910
SYMBOL = KMP
The ruling about the crude-by-rail project in Richmond is a positive news for the company, and it can now go ahead with its project.
Crude-by-rail project has the capacity of 72,000 barrels per day and it will further enhance the midstream revenues of the partnership.
Trans Mountain Pipeline might see some delays as the expansion project is seeing considerable opposition from the local and the city of Burnaby.
The expansion of Trans Mountain Pipeline will triple the revenue as well as cash flows potential of the partnership from its Canadian operations.
Kinder Morgan Energy Partners (NYSE:KMP) will be acquired by its parent company, Kinder Morgan Inc (NYSE:KMI), and KMP units will cease to trade on standalone basis. However, the asset mix will remain the same for the shareholders, which will be driving the future growth of the combined entity. KMP was the biggest asset for KMI, and it will continue to be the major growth driver for the company. We have been evaluating KMP based on the strength of its assets and business segments in our previous articles, as we believe the strength of the asset base is the most important factor for the company.
Although the structure of the entity will be altered after the completion of the transaction, we will continue to evaluate the company on the basis of its assets. We believe that by explaining the potential of each segment and the growth projects along with the current assets of that segment, it becomes easier for the readers to identify the future growth opportunity. This article will talk about some recent positive as well as negative news regarding the expansions in some of the key assets of the company.
Let's start with the good news for the company -- a judge dismissed a lawsuit brought against the partnership's crude-by-rail project by the environmental groups in California. The judge said that the 180-day limit for complaint had passed and the plaintiffs took too long to file the complaint. In isolation, this news might seem to be positive for the company. However, if we look at the background, the Richmond facility can be a massive asset for the company.
At the moment, total crude being processed in California refineries is close to 1.7 million barrels every day. The majority of this crude [51%] is imported from foreign sources, while 37% is contributed by the local resources and about 12% is brought in from Alaska. Refineries in California are not truly exploiting the boom in the domestic market. At the moment, no major pipeline crosses the area -- as a result, this region is dependent on the roads and rail to meet the needs to transport this crude. A number of energy and pipeline companies are trying to gain approval for their facilities in this area. As the output from the Alaskan and local sources is declining, the need for crude-by-rail will further increase. At the moment, KMP's Richmond facility has the largest capacity at 72,000 barrels per day.
The plaintiffs were concerned about the crude-by-rail project as it could result in an accident -- most of these rail projects will be passing through populated areas, which increases the chances of casualties if an accident happens. Last year, an accident in the Canadian province of Quebec killed 47 people. The potential for crude-by-rail is massive in the state, and KMP will benefit substantially from this project. This project will further strengthen the company's midstream footprint and fee-based revenue structure. As a result, revenues and cash flows will grow, which will result in better dividends for shareholders.
Possible Bad News
As we have explained before, Kinder Morgan has been making efforts to expand its pipeline by growing the capacity of some of its current assets -- Trans Mountain Pipeline is one of the assets the company is trying to expand. The company has been facing considerable opposition from the locals as well as the city authorities. This is an extremely important project for the company as it will almost triple the capacity of the pipeline and enhance the midstream footprint of the company.
The total cost of this project is expected to be $5.4 billion, and the company will be twining the existing pipeline from Strathcona County, Alberta to Burnaby, British Columbia -- the project is an important asset for the Canadian segment of KMP's operations. The company is trying to increase the total capacity of the pipeline from 300,000 barrels per day to 890,000 barrels per day. Furthermore, the plan also includes the increase in the number of storage tanks at existing facilities and expanding the Westridge Marine Terminal.
The locals at Burnaby are creating some problems for the company, and some locals are ready to break the law in order to stop the expansion. However, the company has sent the team back for a survey, and the National Energy Board has also ruled in favor of the company that it has the right to survey the area. This project might continue to see some opposition from the locals, which might result in a delay. The figures involved in the project show that this is a massive project, and it will be a major growth driver for the company after the completion.
Overall, I believe both these projects will be extremely important for the company as they meet some key demand areas and enhance the company's midstream footprint. The fee-based nature of the revenues from these projects should result in increased revenues and cash flows for the company. The Richmond asset looks set to yield benefits for the company, however, Trans Mountain Pipeline Expansion Project might see some delays due to opposition from the locals. However, after completion, this project can triple KMP's revenues and cash flows from this area due to the increased capacity.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140910
SYMBOL = GE
GE's recent divestitures of consumer finance and appliances leave it a pure(r) play industrial company.
GE has not participated in the recent market rally and trades at a discount to the S&P 500.
Dividend of 3.5% is poised increase to $1.40/share by 2019.
I am a recent convert to General Electric (NYSE:GE), first seriously investigating the stock in July ("Is General Electric The Perfect Company?") and shortly thereafter initiating a material position ("Why I Decided To Buy General Electric"). Recent events, both GE-specific and macro, while not positively reflected in the stock price, lead me to be even more bullish on the company.
Reasons for my bullishness are summarized as follows:
GE multiple has upside as pure-play compared to the previous "confused" consumer, financial, industrial firm
Recent divestitures make GE a more focused, technically adept industrial company
Globally, core infrastructure spending is increasing and key industrial segments, such as aviation and energy are growing
Relative to "market," GE is a defensive position; "safer" than S&P 500
Industrials (with financials) have lagged market and are poised for sector rotation
Dividend of 3.4%, likely to grow 14% to $1.00 per share later in 2014, and $1.40 by 2019 provides backstop
While up since my initial buy, GE has declined in 2014 as well as underperformed the S&P 500.
On a valuation basis, GE trades at 14.3x 2015 consensus earnings estimates, significantly below the S&P 500, which trades at 15.7x 2015 estimates. GE's PEG (PE/Growth) is 2.0, which is on the high side, but somewhat misleading as the divestiture of consumer finance (Synchrony Financial (NYSE:SYF)) and consumer appliances will lower EPS; the PEG does not reflect an "apples-to-apples" comparison.
GE CEO, Jeff Immelt, is working hard to re-transform the company into a pure(r) play industrial company. In 2001, GE was 40% industrial. It currently is about 60% industrial and expects to derive 75% of its earnings from industrial products by 2016.
As GE transitions to a pure-play industrial company (75% industrial by 2016), multiples should approach the market, reflecting diversity of product and geography, market leading positions, (relative, as opposed to commodity products) pricing power, financial strength and dividend yield.
GE's valuation has been "tainted" by its finance business, while now recovered and divested, which presented investors with a confusing investment profile. Previous research asked, "Is GE an industrial company, a finance company, or a conglomerate?" and tended to focus on the aspect that was negative. On July 31, SYF (GE's credit card and banking unit, now known as Synchrony Financial) had an IPO, the first step to a full split-off, which will occur in late 2015.
GE's sale of the company's appliance business to Electrolux (OTCPK:ELUXY) (see, "Update: General Electric Sells Appliance Business For $3.3 Billion") further focuses the company as a technology-based, industrial firm focusing on large, sophisticated, high-value products.
In June, GE acquired (to close in 2015) Alstom Power & Grid in a $14 billion transaction. This deal, while controversial due to the political concessions required, should add $0.06-$0.09 to 2016 earnings. The Alstom deal is an example of GE's continuing efforts to focus on value-added industrial, in a market with high-barriers to entry, limited competition and oligopoly-type pricing.
After many years of restrained spending due to the recent economic crisis, companies and countries are beginning to spend on deferred projects and plant expansion. An example of the growth in technology-driven capital spending is the airline industry. Carriers are rushing to meet expanding demand and paying premiums for highly engineered products that materially reduce costs, such as aircraft and their engines. In July, GE's aviation business signed $36 billion in orders at the Farnborough, UK airshow and currently has a $126 billion backlog in engines and related equipment (Source: gereports.com).
Most investors seek to minimize risk and maximize reward. I believe, in an expanding economy, GE can play the dual role of potentially appreciating asset and equity position less vulnerable to market corrections than the S&P 500. GE, and other industrials, has not "participated" in the market rally of the last several years. There are a variety of reasons for this, but it provides us investors with an opportunity to acquire an undervalued asset that is poised for multiple expansion. For these same reasons, I would expect the currently "undervalued" GE to decline less in an overall market pullback. That being said, this guidance does not hold for the entire market cycle, or when the economy is entering a recession.
Though much maligned for cutting the dividend in 2009, GE has been a consistent dividend payer and dividend grower. The company currently pays $0.88/share, which could grow to as much as $1.00 per share by the end of the year and to $1.40 over the next five years (Source: Value Line). CEO Jeff Immelt is also committed to the dividend, having said, "our dividend is going to keep going up, guys. I've got to tell you."
GE has demonstrated its seriousness in moving towards becoming a pure(r) play industrial company. It has divested non-core assets, made strategic acquisitions and is focused on providing highly engineered, high value-added solutions in markets that have high barriers to entry and oligopoly-type pricing characteristics. The stock has underperformed in 2014 and trades at a discount to the S&P 500. It is also, in my opinion, defensive (in a growing economy) against an overall market correction. GE boasts a healthy 3.5% dividend that will grow later this year and is projected to be 59% higher by 2019.
Not one of the items mentioned above makes for a compelling buy as a stand-alone reason, however, taken together, I believe they make a compelling case for ownership of GE.
This article only reflects the author's opinion. It is not designed, and should not be used as the basis of an investor's buy or sell decision. Investors should always conduct their own due diligence and make their own buy and sell decisions.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140910
SYMBOL = QCOM
Qualcomm shares have pulled back from all time highs after a disappointing earnings report and potential antitrust fines in China and the EU.
Despite this headline risk, Qualcomm consistently delivers strong margins and features a rock solid balance sheet with no debt and $18 billion in cash.
The stock currently yields 2.3% and the company expects to increase its dividend at a rate quicker than earnings growth, which is reasonable considering the 33% payout ratio.
The combination of an above average yield and a PEG ratio of approximately 1 makes Qualcomm an attractive investment for both dividend and growth investors.
With all eyes recently focused on Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) surrounding the company's launch of the iPhone 6 models and new Apple Watch, many investors may have forgotten about Qualcomm (NASDAQ:QCOM). Samsung and Apple continue to try to outdo one another with new versions of smartphones, tablets and now watches, but Qualcomm makes the technology that is the backbone of these various devices. After correcting by more than 10% following a disappointing earnings announcement in July and further concern about ongoing antitrust investigations occurring in the EU and China, the stock is now trading at a compelling valuation.
One of the most attractive aspects of investing in Qualcomm is the licensing side of the business, which accounted for 28% of the firm's revenue in the fiscal third quarter of 2014. These payments help the company obtain strong gross (60%) and net operating margins (30%) and generate a return on equity of nearly 20% despite maintaining a conservative balance sheet with no debt and over $18 billion in cash and cash equivalents. One slightly troubling factor for Qualcomm is that licensing revenue was stagnant for the first nine months of fiscal 2014 compared to the prior year and declined approximately 4% in the quarter. A continuation of this trend would lead to lower margins in the coming years and is something that should be monitored moving forward.
Over the last several years, Qualcomm has focused on substantially increasing its dividend. The stock yields 2.3% at its current price after the company raised its quarterly dividend by 20% earlier this year. The dividend has nearly doubled since March of 2011. Furthermore, the company bought back over $3 billion in shares in 2013 and is on pace to increase that amount this year. Qualcomm's management has been vocal about its intention to continue returning significant amounts of cash to its shareholders. Specifically, at the company's 2014 Annual Meeting, it reiterated the following guidance first issued in November of 2013:
The company has expressly stated that it wishes to increase its dividend more quickly than its earnings grow over the coming years. This translates into a potential boon for income investors, because on average, analysts expect Qualcomm to grow its earnings per share at an annualized rate of 15% over the coming five years. Considering that the business has achieved an annual dividend growth rate of 18% over the last four years and the payout ratio sits at a mere 33%, investors can reasonably expect double digit dividend increases each year for the foreseeable future.
Utilizing the last four quarters of data, Qualcomm shares currently trade at a price to earnings ratio of 17x. Looking ahead to the next four months, the stock is valued at 14x forward earnings. Based on the projected 15% long-term EPS growth rate mentioned previously, Qualcomm is a rare example of a stock that trades at a PEG ratio of around 1 and offers a comparable dividend yield to a 10-year U.S. government bond.
Qualcomm's forward price to earnings ratio currently sits near its lowest level of the past five years. During this time, the stock's average forward P/E ratio was 15.9, which translates into a current discount of nearly 12% compared to its historical average:
One reason for this depressed valuation (apart from the headline risk caused by potential antitrust fines), is that Qualcomm is expected to see revenue growth of just 8% and earnings growth of only 4% in 2015. Nevertheless, longer term investors would be wise to focus on the expected long-term earnings growth rate of 15%. If this level of growth can be achieved, the stock could see its forward multiple expand back toward its historical average. Combine this with powerful earnings growth and an above average dividend yield and Qualcomm has the potential to reward both dividend and growth focused investors with double digit returns.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140910
SYMBOL = CVX
Is Chevron committed to accountability and transparency with ESG disclosures?
Why is Chevron's water usage and water intensity so much higher than its peers?
Do investors want to know Chevron's GHG emissions?
ModernGraham has identified Chevron (NYSE: CVX) as appropriate for Defensive or Enterprising Investors and, for these investors, I am providing another layer of research and analysis that offers insight into Chevron's environmental, social and governance (or ESG) performance, with a particular focus on Chevron's environmental footprint.
Companies, through annual reports such as the 10K and the corporate social responsibility report, release corporate ESG data. Our primary source for ESG data is Bloomberg's Professional Finance and ESG database (Bloomberg). Since 2009, corporate ESG data has been available through Bloomberg. If a company sees an error in their public ESG data, it should have a corporate representative contact Bloomberg and get it corrected, as it would with public financial data.
ESG insights are driven by comparing companies within the same or similar industries. For this blog, we analyzed the ESG data of six publicly traded oil and gas companies based in the U.S. Notice how the environmental data in Tables 1 and 2 raises questions and insights about Chevron's commitment to accountability and transparency. Notice too how Chevron's failure to disclose key environmental data, coupled with its high water usage and intensity rates, naturally raises questions about operational and management efficiency.
Table 1, Column 2 gives the aggregate ESG disclosure score for each company calculated by Bloomberg, which provides a quick read on how accountable and transparent a company chooses to be when it comes to sustainability performance. ESG scores range between 0 (no disclosure) and 100 (full disclosure). The average ESG disclosure score for this benchmark group is 47, which is relatively high compared to other industries. The highest ESG score is 71 and belongs to Hess Oil. Chevron's ESG disclosure score is 52, which is slightly above average. Based upon the ESG disclosure score alone, Hess Oil would appear to be more accountable and transparent company compared to the other five.
Consider, however, that Chevron has not yet disclosed its Total Greenhouse (GHG) emissions (Colum 3), whereas four of the other six companies have. Without Total GHG emissions (Column 3), it is not possible to determine Chevron's GHG intensity as a percentage of sales (Column 4). The oil and gas sector, as a whole, has robust ESG disclosures compared to other industries. Chevron's and Phillips 66's failure to report GHG emissions stands out as an important performance gap. Investors can question the company on when they expect to disclose Total GHG emissions.
Three of the six companies have disclosed Total Water Usage (Column 5), and Chevron is among them. Chevron's Total Water usage exceeds the other companies. When it comes to water intensity as a percentage of sales, Chevron's is more than twice the average for this benchmark. Higher usage and intensity numbers for enterprises with similar products usually suggests that the enterprise with higher intensities is also experiencing higher production costs and reduced revenues.
Table 2, Column 2 show that Chevron's energy consumption is higher than the benchmark average. Column 3 shows that Chevron has not yet disclosed total enterprise waste, unlike the majority of other companies in this benchmark. However, Chevron has disclosed a $1.3 trillion budget for investing in operational sustainability (Column 4), which is above the benchmark average. This metric is the amount of money spent by the company, in millions, on operational environmental and social compliance and other internal environmental and social initiatives, as defined by the company. Many companies are not used to reporting this metric, but it helps make sustainability goals and budgets transparent.
Who values this data? Investors seeking long-term investments in maturely positioned companies to absorb identifiable risks and opportunities value the data. Other stakeholders -- such as future and current employees and customers -- value ESG data, too. If you want a deeper explanation of this mega-trend towards corporate disclosures, browse through the several articles on my website.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140910
SYMBOL = LULU
Lululemon disappointed the market last quarter when earnings declined 60% Y/Y.
The stock sold off 16% in one day, prompting founder Chip Wilson to seek alternatives to raise the stock price.
Wilson sold half his shares to a private equity firm, yet Lululemon's growth story is still in question.
At 22x trailing 12 months earnings and a cloudy future, I expect the stock to decline post-earnings.
Lululemon Athletica (NASDAQ:LULU) is set to announce its quarterly earnings on Thursday morning. The yoga apparel maker was once a Wall Street darling; the bloom came off its rose in its most recent quarterly report when its net income declined 60% to $19 million from $47 million a year earlier. Management announced $450 million in stock buybacks and the stock sold off 16% in one day after investors soured on the company's growth story. In an effort to revive the stock price founder, Chip Wilson, explored several options, including taking the company private in a leveraged buyout. He ultimately sold half his stake to private equity firm Advent International for $845 million. That said, the company can answer questions about its future with a solid earnings report. Analysts are expecting revenue of $377 million - up 9% from the year ago period, but down 2% sequentially. Earnings per share ("eps") are expected to come in at $0.29. Below are the company's historical financial results:
Net sales grew 11% from the 13 weeks ended May 5, 2013 to 13 weeks ended May 4, 2014. Consistent double-digit top line growth is what solidified Lululemon as a growth company.
Operating income only grew 6% Y/Y as operating income margin declined from 19% to 18%.
The company's gross margin improved Y/Y from 49% to 51%, but it was offset by an increase in SG&A expense from 30% to 33% of revenue.
Lululemon is down 34% year-to-date while the S&P 500 (NYSEARCA:SPY) is up about 8% over that period. With a market capitalization of $5.6 billion, the stock trades at 22x trailing 12 months earnings of $251 million.
Given that the growth story is over, I would expect its price-to-earnings multiple to come down at some point. Since the stock buyback idea did not float last quarter, I would expect management to signal to the market alternatives to get the stock price up.
The stock is at an inflection point right now. A dividend would get me interested in buying the stock. However, investors looking for capital appreciation may shy away. Either way I expect the stock to decline post-earnings.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140909
SYMBOL = INVN
Apple has announced new products which are anticipated to use InvenSense parts.
Details of the announcement give us clues as to which spots InvenSense has won.
The new Apple Watch is the most important announcement and it contains some features whose impact will be at least as important as the hardware.
The introduction of the watch confirms at least one of my long-standing predictions regarding InvenSense gaining Apple as a customer.
Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) has just announced their new product lineup, and already we can guess at some of the impact for InvenSense (NYSE:INVN). There are 3 important takeaways that I see:
The new iPhones use OIS (optical image stabilization). It is likely that this represents an InvenSense design win.
They also use an "M8" co-processor, which is essentially a sensor hub. This indicates that InvenSense's newer SoC (system on chip) product line is NOT being used, though it's possible the company still did get sensor wins for the phones.
Apple has introduced a wearable watch product, which likely includes InvenSense sensors too, though only a tear-down will reveal which ones.
The phone design wins have already been discussed in previous articles, and my long-time prediction of InvenSense only getting these wins when Apple introduces a wearable has been validated. This article will discuss the iWatch, which is what I'm betting people will call it, despite the official introduction as "Apple Watch". The naming is probably to avoid confusion with Apple's previous iWatch product which flopped and was discontinued.
The watch seems to include indoor navigation and the single most important question for INVN investors for the remainder of this year will be whether or not this technology and the developer API are being repackaged from InvenSense. My guess is that they do not, as the presentation focuses on using the connection with phone's GPS and Wi-Fi for location tracking. That's not good for INVN investors, but it is consistent with the growing pains I've noted as being evident from the recent acquisitions. Also as predicted, the watch won't be available until next year, which means that the coming quarterly from InvenSense should give us some degree of insight as to what revenue is coming from which device class.
Finally the watch also includes a microphone to interface with Siri. This is exactly the design that I laid out as the next big shift in mobile interfaces. Again, tear-downs will likely be required to see if InvenSense got the microphone win, but software and APIs are at least as important. I think it's a little unlikely based on the design aspects I'm seeing, but it possible that Apple wrangled favorable terms in return for a high percentage of parts across their products. We'll have to wait until next year to tell whether the iWatch signals the true coming of InvenSense's time.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140909
SYMBOL = DRYS
DryShips looks like a turnaround candidate after its second-quarter results, supported by its decent fundamentals.
DryShips is seeing an increase in charter rates and this will aid its recovery.
DryShips will also benefit from increasing demand for seaborne transportation as a result of improving economic conditions.
DryShips (NASDAQ:DRYS) has given its investors a bad time this year, with the stock down almost 28%. However, a turnaround cannot be ruled out going forward as DryShips is rapidly improving its financial performance, and the conditions in the industry indicate that things can get better for the shipping company.
A turnaround supported by decent fundamentals
The signs of a turnaround can be clearly seen in how the company performed last quarter, when it surprised analysts by posting an adjusted profit of $0.01 per share while analysts were expecting a big loss of $0.06. The company displayed an impressive improvement in its adjusted EBITDA, which came in at $220.5 million for the quarter as opposed to $112.3 million last year.
In addition, the company's fundamentals also appear to be in good shape. DryShips looks cheap at a forward P/E of only 9.29. In addition, its price to sales ratio is just 0.76. Moreover, DryShips' cash flow also looks strong, with the company having generated $439 million in operating cash flow over the previous year. The expected improvements in DryShips' performance is also seen in analysts' sentiments. In the next five years, it is projected that the shipper will improve its bottom line at a CAGR of 10%. In comparison, its earnings have declined at a rate of more than 50% in the last five-year period.
DryShips has executed well on several fronts, and industry conditions indicate that its robust execution will allow it to deliver improved results. For instance, its financial results are improving due to high utilization rates in the drilling rig segment. Moreover, a rise in average daily time charter equivalent levels on the tanker vessels from $10,000 per day to $16,000 per day has helped it improve its EBITDA level.
Looking ahead, DryShips expects to see a sustained increase in the rates for Aframax and Suezmax tankers. In addition, the average daily TCE levels for the drybulk segment are expected to remain steady in comparison to the previous quarters, primarily due to the time charter coverage for the bulk of its Capesize fleet and the spot rates for the Panamax fleet.
Moreover, DryShips' subsidiary, Ocean Rig, is also performing well. Ocean Rig recently entered into a six year definitive agreement for drilling operations offshore Angola. Also, Ocean Rig has signed another drilling contract for one of its semi-submersibles, the Eirik Raude, for drilling offshore the Falkland Islands.
DryShips has considerable leverage to the drybulk and tanker spot markets, and healthy developments in these sectors will help the company generate robust cash flow. Going forward, the shipping major is keen on implementing its strategy to operate both its dry and wet vessels on the spot market to benefit from sustainable recovery in these markets. Also, an increase in average charter rates at a rate of $20,000 per day is expected to add $133 million and $316 million of additional EBITDA to its shipping segment in 2014 and 2015, respectively.
Moving ahead, DryShips management is of the opinion that the supply and demand have tightened, and the trade growth is continuing to expand with the slowdown in new building deliveries. The pick-up in demand for iron ore, a rise in demand for steel production, and the continued low cost iron ore supply in the market, will result in the expansion of seaborne transportation demand.
The improvements in the business are attributed specifically to the improving supply-demand imbalance in the market. Moreover, with the rising global oil demand forecast, driven by better momentum in the global economy, DryShips sees an improvement in ton mile dynamics. For example, the forecast for shipping demand from China remains strong, and this will continue benefiting DryShips. According to a report:
"In June, 2014 Chinese fixed asset investments continued to grow 17% year-over-year (or YoY) mainly led by railway, infrastructure, housing, and constructions. China's purchasing manager's index (or PMI) data reflected similar trends. Crude steel production and Chinese iron ore imports also reflect trends supporting the shipping industry.
Domestic iron ore production in China indicates an effective iron content in the range of 15%-compared to the 63% of imported ore. Despite an 8% increase domestic iron ore production in June, the quality seems to be deteriorating. Based on this data, the substitution of low quality domestic iron ore with imported ore would be positive for the shipping industry."
Thus, on the back of improving conditions in the industry, DryShips' performance looks set to improve in the future. Hence, it might be a good idea to take a closer look at the stock from an investment point of view as it can deliver impressive growth in the long run, and its weak performance this year presents an enticing point of entry.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140514
SYMBOL = MGM
Lodging was strong in Vegas in Q1, leading MGM to report blowout Q1 EPS.
But MGM's gaming revenues were still weak at -2%. This is just a question of time before gaming revenues recover, driven by the better economic climate and increasing hotel occupancy.
The upside potential remains significant in Vegas in view of the expected gaming recovery and of key lodging metrics still well below the 2007 peak.
Against this backdrop, MGM’s financial leverage is likely to boost its earnings growth and valuation.
Following the recent Macau newsflow (crackdown on illegal money transfers, potential reduction of the maximum duration of visitor visas to Macau from mainland China), MGM (NYSE:MGM) has been the most oversold casino stock, down 7% from its early May high vs. Wynn (NASDAQ:WYNN) down 6% and LVS (NYSE:LVS) down 5%. We believe this is not justified as MGM is much less exposed to Macau and is more a play on Vegas when the recovery is gaining steam.
Q1 earnings upside driven by lodging in Vegas
We have been saying for a while that even if Macau (50-60% of casinos revenues on average) was likely to keep defying gravity (despite the above-mentioned "noise"), Las Vegas was becoming a key upside driver as the city was still at an early stage of its recovery and as expectations were still low. MGM, which has a high 70% U.S. exposure, perfectly illustrated this with blowout Q1 EPS of $0.21 vs. consensus of $0.09 while LVS and Wynn beat expectations by a "mere" 8% on average.
The lodging part of the business in Vegas was healthy, with MGM and Wynn reporting RevPAR growth of 14% and 6% respectively, ahead of expectations. This was driven by a particularly strong convention calendar, leading MGM to guide more conservatively for Q2 (RevPAR growth expected around +5%).
In view of strong group bookings for the remainder of the year and of Wynn's bullish stance on Vegas for the first time in a while (expects Q2 RevPAR up 6-7%), we believe that MGM is managing expectations and that RevPAR growth is likely to remain impressive in Vegas, suggesting that the oversupply issues are now well behind us.
The gaming upside should materialize soon
If lodging was strong in Q1, gaming revenues were still disappointing: -2% at MGM and below expectations (+3%), partly driven by lower hold.
We believe this is just a question of time before gaming revenues fully recover in the city, as a better economic climate in the U.S. and increasing occupancy in hotel rooms are likely to spark increased gaming activity.
Even if gaming revenues have been mixed in Vegas year-to-date (after a two-month slide, they recovered 10.9% in March), slot machine wagering figures have increased for three consecutive months. This suggests that visitors are spending more on gaming and this could be the leading indicator of a sustained recovery.
Vegas exposure and financial leverage make MGM a top pick
In all, the upside potential remains significant in Vegas in view of the expected gaming recovery and of key lodging metrics still well below the 2007 peak (average rates 10% below, occupancy 400-500bps below).
This should spark a strong operating leverage at MGM. Against this backdrop, the stock's huge financial leverage (net debt / equity around 400%) is likely to boost its EPS growth and valuation.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140514
SYMBOL = SBUX
Down over 9% YTD, Starbucks is starting to look really cheap.
Current yield of 1.46% is not bad, considering high dividend growth rate.
I'm holding on to my shares for now.
Since the beginning of this year shares in Starbucks Corporation (NASDAQ:SBUX) have dropped by over 9%. At the current price per share of $71.16, the quarterly $0.26 investors receive in dividends translates to a dividend yield of 1.46%. I own a small amount of SBUX shares and in this article, I will explain why I'm keeping them despite the recent drop.
I considered selling SBUX in November of last year, when shares in the mega-cap coffee roaster hit a new all-time high, as can be read in my most recent article on SBUX. However, strong growth expectations and good fundamentals convinced me to hold on.
The current dividend yield of 1.46% might not seem very impressive but over the past years there haven't been many chances to get a higher yield, as can be seen in the next graph. Furthermore, Starbucks' dividend grows at an amazing rate. In 2010, SBUX paid quarterly dividends of $0.13 per share. This has doubled to $0.26 in only four years.
Analysts are expecting earnings per share of $2.67 for the current fiscal year, putting the company at a forward price to earnings ratio of 26.7. This may seem expensive at first glance but for FY2015 analysts are forecasting EPS to reach $3.16, meaning the company is valued at only 22.5 times next year's expected earnings.
Revenue for the current fiscal year is expected to come in at $16.48 billion, giving SBUX a forward price to sales ratio of 3.25. This is slightly higher than the 5-year average p/s ratio of 2.8. However, revenue is expected to increase to $18.25 billion next year, pushing the forward p/s ratio for FY2015 back down to 2.94.
Looking at the balance sheet we can see SBUX has a current ratio of 1.31, with $3.58 billion in current assets and $2.73 billion in current liabilities. The quick ratio (current ratio minus inventory) is slightly lower at 0.96, which is still very reasonable.
I like to buy stocks for the long term and with earnings per share expected to reach $3.16 next year, I wouldn't be surprised to see the dividend go up further. Starbucks could increase the dividend to $0.30 per quarter while still keeping the payout ratio relatively low, at 37.9%. This would give investors getting in now a yield on cost of 1.69%.
I already own a couple of shares in SBUX which I will be holding on to for now. I believe the high rate at which Starbucks' dividend is growing should be able to provide me with quite a bit of income in years to come. The current low price level seems like a great entry point for investors looking for growing income streams.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140514
SYMBOL = RAX
Investors holding the stock shouldn't rest easy.
The $19 target makes Racksapce a good short to $20.
The good news is that business conditions are improving and there are now signs that the company's recent struggles are on the mend.
To the extent that Rackspace can build on this, the company should do fine. But it's going to be a long and treacherous road.
Shares of IT-hosting and cloud-computing giant Rackspace (NYSE:RAX) has soared to the clouds recently. The stock closed Tuesday at $29.88, up 8.5%. But the shares are still down roughly 24% year to date. But in yesterday's session, there was (at one point) a 10% spike upward following the company's better-than-expected first-quarter earnings results. But it's not yet time to party, according to some analysts. First, let's go through the numbers.
Rackspace reported first-quarter revenue of $421 million. Aside from representing a 16% year-over-year jump, this was also enough to be Street estimates of $419 million. Net income for the quarter came in at $25 million, resulting in earnings of 18 cents per share, a penny below earnings from the year-ago. Equally impressive what that this was six cents above the 12-cent per-share analyst estimate.
In a space dominated by larger rivals such as Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN) and Google (NASDAQ:GOOG), Rackspace, which developed the now-popular OpenStack standard, had come under significant margin pressure. There were concerns about the company's long-term position within the cloud.
So, understandably, investors cheered the earnings beat, which came as a sign that things were beginning to turn around. But not everyone is buying this story. At least not yet. Several analysts have wasted no time to lower their price targets, citing the strength of the competition. One, in particular, is Rick Summer of Morningstar. In a research note this morning, Summer said:
"The company will be challenged to differentiate itself from competitors and achieve sufficient pricing to deliver excess returns on capital. In the 'unmanaged' cloud segment, we aren't convinced Rackspace can avoid the competition and believe it is likely to experience slowing growth or limited profitability for its public cloud offerings."
I have to agree. Given Rackspace's recent struggles and its limited capital when compared to Google and Amazon, it will be hard for the company to go toe-to-toe if/when Google and Amazon decide to cut their prices. Rackspace will be squeezed out of infrastructure services.
Summer later added, "We remain concerned that Rackspace will not be able to earn returns above its cost of capital over any meaningful period." As it stands, Morningstar has a $19 price target on the stock, which suggests a decline of 36% from Tuesday's close. And even though other analysts such as Greg Miller of Canaccord still have strong targets, they've just lowered their projected valuation from $39 to $35.
Note, Rackspace, which is being lead by interim chairman Graham Weston, still has not appointed a permanent CEO since Lanham Napier retired in February. In that regard, Canaccord's Miller offered:
"Without a permanent CEO and with increasing levels of competition from competent competitors, we remain concerned for this subsector in the second half of the year and remain cautious on the stock."
I understand the need for caution. But Rackspace management didn't guide as if they are afraid of any challenges the company might face. Looking ahead, with second-quarter revenue expected at $437 million, management set the midpoint of its revenue guidance just above Street targets. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had estimated revenue of $435.5 million.
And following the announcement, while praising the company's strong performance, Graham Weston suggested that the company added "thousands of new customers." Later in the statement, he hinted that of the new customers added, one was "the largest we've ever landed."
For now, investors holding the stock shouldn't rest easy. Analysts have decided to take a wait-and-see attitude. But the $19 target makes Rackspace a good short to $20.
The good news is that business conditions are improving and there are now signs that the company's recent struggles are on the mend. To the extent that Rackspace can build on this, the company should do fine. But it's going to be a long and treacherous road.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140514
SYMBOL = PSEC
Prospect Capital shares have been hit hard by news of a possible accounting change with shares falling 9% in a week.
The SEC wants Prospect to consolidate holding companies it controls, but Prospect is appealing this ruling.
Importantly, this accounting change will not impact leverage or taxable income, meaning the distribution is safe.
With shares below book value and yielding over 13%, now is the perfect time to get long PSEC.
Shares of Prospect Capital (NASDAQ:PSEC) have had a tough week with shares falling 9% over the past five sessions. The company's recent quarterly results can be best described as mediocre (more on that here). The company reported net investment income (NII) of $0.31, which is less than the $0.33 it spends on dividends per quarter (financial and operating data available here). This is in part because of unfavorable timing of new loans. As a consequence, I expect stronger NII in the quarter. While this quarterly report provided little that would push shares higher, it is not the reason for shares to fall so much.
Instead, possible SEC action is a major overhang for the stock. Prospect has not been consolidating its controlling interest in holding companies, and the SEC wants them to start consolidating these companies. Prospect has appealed the finding and does not want to consolidate these investments. In last week's conference call (transcript available here), COO Grier Eliasek put it this way:
Had we not used the HoldCo, but had simply put all the debt at the operating company -- my understanding is that there would not be an issue. So, in other words, because we used the holding company there is an issue that would not exist without a holding company. The economics of the transaction are exactly the same.
Prospect in a sense is facing scrutiny because it is putting its investment in a holding company, which then invests in the operating company.
While Prospect is appealing the SEC ruling, there is simply no way of knowing whether or not they will win. As a general rule when there is a dispute between a company and the SEC, it is probably wise to assume the SEC will win. For the purpose of this article, I will assume the SEC forces a change. If the SEC were to lose, I expect PSEC shares would snap back to where they were trading prior to the disclosure, around $10.50-$10.75. If the SEC wins, I expect shares to remain at a lower price, probably around $9.50-$10.00, but I would not sell shares. Instead, I would be a buyer as shares should trade above $10.50 anyway.
Prospect is mainly owned as an income vehicle and it currently yields over 13%. The question is whether the SEC's ruling will threaten its ability to pay the distribution or whether it merely will result in some accounting changes. I do not expect consolidation to threaten the distribution as it will not impact the cash flow PSEC is receiving from its investments, both controlled and not controlled. On Tuesday, Prospect released a press release (available here) that was very important for dividend considerations. The company stated:
The [SEC] staff is not seeking consolidation of the operating companies underneath these holding companies. If these wholly-owned holding companies were to be consolidated for financial statement purposes, there would be no significant change in the leverage ratio of Prospect because there is no third party debt at any of these holding companies. Because the tax basis of these entities would not change, we expect there would be no negative effects on our taxable income from consolidation. At least 90% of taxable income is required to be distributed to shareholders to maintain our Federal income tax status as a regulated investment company. As a result, we expect no negative change in our dividend paying capacity or change in our dividend policy through consolidation.
First, taxable income, which is a determining factor in the dividend policy, will not be impacted. This means that PSEC's dividend policy should not be impacted by SEC action. As PSEC will only consolidate holding not operating companies, this event will not be too dramatic. It is also critical that Prospect's leverage ratio does not get impacted. Prospect receives favorable tax treatment because it is a business development company (BDC), which is a firm that mainly lends to mid-size businesses. A BDC cannot have a debt to equity ratio greater than 1.0x. PSEC currently has a ratio of 67.9%. If consolidation significantly increased leverage, that would threaten PSEC's tax status, which would threaten the dividend.
It is now clear that while the SEC may require an accounting change this change will not impact PSEC's dividend policy, which is the main reason to own the stock. Importantly, in yesterday's press release, PSEC also disclosed a $45 million increase in its credit facility to $837.5 million. PSEC hopes to eventually increase this facility to $1 billion. Even with the SEC controversy, lenders are staying with PSEC, which is an important vote of confidence.
Now irrespective of the outcome, this SEC action is definitely having two negative impacts on Prospect. First, PSEC has indefinitely postponed its acquisition of Nicholas Financial (NASDAQ:NICK), which would have been accretive to the dividend. Hopefully, this acquisition is merely delayed and not cancelled. Second, Prospect's shares have fallen well below book value. While book value is $10.68, shares are trading at $9.81. Prospect funds loan originations with debt and equity. Given the discount to book, Prospect cannot economically issue new equity and has postponed its at the market secondary program. This does hamstring Prospect's ability to originate new investments, and it will have to rely on debt issuance. Given its preference to keep the debt to equity ratio below 75%, there is limited room for maneuvering. The SEC action will temporarily slow Prospect's origination activity.
Overall, Prospect shares have clearly been hit by the SEC news, but this news should not change your investment thesis. Even if resolved unfavorably, cash flow, taxable income, and leverage will not be impacted. This means that Prospect's dividend is safe, and its policy will not be altered. It is also does not face the risk of losing its BDC status. On the plus side, investors can now buy PSEC at an 8% discount to book value. Tuesday's press release was positive for shares, and they irrationally fell 2% in the session. For an income-oriented investor, now is the perfect time to add or initiate a long in PSEC, which is paying a handsome and sustainable 13.5%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140514
SYMBOL = CBS
Content licensing and distribution revenues increased 6% to $1.07 billion compared to the prior year period. International content licensing grew by 22%.
Affiliate and subscription fees increased by 9% to $567 million compared to the prior year period, thanks to 19% growth in retransmission revenues and network affiliation fees.
CBS will see solid growth especially in the second half of 2014 driven by Thursday Night Football and higher advertising revenues due to the midterm elections.
CBS Corporation (NYSE:CBS) recently reported its Q1 2014 results, which came largely on expected lines. Overall revenues declined by 5% to $3.86 billion while earnings grew 7% to $0.78 a share. It must be noted that the first quarter revenue comparison was difficult as the prior year quarter benefited from the Super Bowl and NCAA games. Absence of the Super Bowl led to a 12% decline in the advertising revenues. The growth was stable from the other revenue sources. Content licensing and distribution revenues increased 6% to $1.07 billion as compared to the prior year period, reflecting growth from international licensing of television programming. International content licensing grew by 22% in the first quarter. [1] Similarly, affiliate and subscription fees increased by 9% to $567 million as compared to the prior year period, primarily due to 19% growth in retransmission revenues and network affiliation fees. [2] Going forward, we believe CBS will see solid growth especially in the second half of 2014 driven by Thursday Night Football, and higher advertising revenues due to the U.S. midterm elections. We also believe that Cable Networks will continue to grow strongly driven by the company's focus on original programming.
We currently have $65 price estimate for CBS Corporation, which we will soon update based on the recent earnings announcement.
Entertainment And Cable Networks See Continued Growth
Revenues at the Entertainment division were down 9% to $2.30 billion while operating income (before depreciation and amortization) was down 5% to $457 million. However, if we take out the Super Bowl and NCAA games of last year, the revenues were up in the low single digits. [1] If we look at the CBS television network, it did well in the first quarter. It continued to be the most watched network in the U.S., benefiting from its original programming including The Big Bang Theory, NCIS and The Millers. CBS will do even better in the coming quarters with its solid summer prime-time slate that includes another season of Under The Dome, Steven Spielberg's Extant starring Halle Berry, and NFL Thursday Night. It must be noted that the comparability will be negatively impacted from the third quarter due to cost increases over the company's agreement with the NFL.
Cable Networks contribute close to 25% to CBS' value, according to our estimates. The Cable Networks division includes Showtime Networks, CBS Sports and Smithsonian Networks. Revenues and operating income at this segment were up 12% driven by the licensing of Showtime original series as well as higher affiliate revenues. [2] We believe Showtime will do better in the later half of 2014 driven by the return of Ray Donovan and Masters of Sex, both of which were very popular last year. Also, the most popular show of the network, Homeland, will return for season 4 this fall. Cable Networks have seen solid growth in the past few years, from $1.62 billion in 2011 to $2.07 billion in 2013, reflecting average annual growth rate of 12%. We believe CBS will continue to see strong growth in this segment driven by the company's focus on original programming. We estimate the segment revenues to be northward of $3.5 billion by the end of our forecast period, reflecting an average annual growth rate of 8% in the coming years. It must be noted that CBS will soon split off its Outdoor division, which would then split the company's advertising and non-advertising income in the ratio of 50:50. This is significant for content companies such as CBS, as less reliance on advertising income and accelerating growth from non-advertising sources can ensure a stable growth outlook in the long run.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140514
SYMBOL = MSFT
Everyone is well aware of Microsoft’s storied historical growth record, which provides a classic case to watch a company progress into the maturation phase.
As a result of this slower growth, one might be inclined to believe that an investment thesis today is “late to the party.”.
While it is true that the dynamics and capital attention of the business have changed, this does not necessarily rule out the possibility for a reasonable investment.
Everyone is keenly aware of the $300+ billion dollar company that is Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT). From the classic Windows and Office products to the latest Xbox and Skype, the business doesn't exactly need an introduction. In fact, it's quite likely that you are using or near a Microsoft product now; we used a couple just to get this article to you. So instead of providing a generic opening, we thought it might be interesting to highlight the company with some numbers. There are 1.3 billion people that use Windows everyday and 1 in 7 of the world's population use Office. Skype represents one third of the worldwide phone traffic and Outlook has 400 million users. Internet Explorer's usage share is over 56%. In other words, large is a bit of an understatement.
As impressive as these numbers are, it also highlights the limitations of big. For instance, in the beginning a business can quickly increase its foothold from say .00001% of the market share to .00002%. Alternatively, Microsoft would literally be unable to double its Internet usage share. It already has over half the pie, so growth probably has to come from other areas. Trees don't grow to the sky, or perhaps in Microsoft's case: trees don't grow to the stars.
With that, we thought it might be interesting to view Microsoft in a slightly different manner from which we are accustomed. Being acutely aware of the phenomenal stock and business performance of the company over the last three decades - along with the general concept that the superior growth is a thing of the past - let's view Microsoft's progression using F.A.S.T. Graphs™.
When presented with the "default" or "regular" 15-year F.A.S.T. Graph it reveals quite a bit of information: earnings, dividends, the normal market multiple paid, a theoretical valuation, forecasted earnings and the corresponding relationships between those dynamics. Yet what is often overlooked is the idea that the graphs presented on Seeking Alpha are static such that they demonstrate a single time period of observation.
For instance, here's the traditional 15-year default F.A.S.T. Graph, with 13-years of history and 2 forecasted years. This displays a good amount of information. It shows you that Microsoft grew "adjusted" earnings by a compound rate of almost 9% a year, it gives a theoretical and average valuation paid, shows whether or not the recessions had an effect on the business, demonstrates when Microsoft initiated a dividend and how the payout ratio has evolved. Perhaps most importantly, it illustrates the idea that where earnings go price eventually follows.
However, as good as this graph is and as quickly as it provides fundamental information about the business, it does have some limitations. For instance, it doesn't explicitly reveal how the company's growth rate has changed over time or whether the market has consistently offered a higher or lower valuation for shares. (Although to be sure, both are implicitly observable) Luckily, a F.A.S.T. Graphs' subscriber has the option of viewing and reviewing a variety of different time frames. In doing so, the graphs are dynamic such that new calculations are provided for each period viewed.
So, in keeping with the slowing growth trend of Microsoft, you might be inclined to view the growth rate during the 1990's as compared to the last few years.
Below we have included an Earnings and Price Correlated graph from 1994 to 2000, using the Review feature. Here we can see that Microsoft did indeed have a staggering growth rate at nearly 43% per annum. Interestingly, despite the large price decline at the end of this period, an investor still would have realized total returns in the magnitude of 36% per year - turning a hypothetical $10,000 investment into $81,000. Note that the company was not paying a dividend during this time.
Alternatively, viewing the last 7 full years reveals a different bit of information. Over this period, Microsoft was able to grow earnings by about 11% per year - surely still a solid pace, but a far cry from the blazing 1990s. Further, notice that Microsoft had begun paying a dividend by this time.
These two pictures of varying growth rates do a reasonable job of demonstrating the changing growth dynamics of the company. However, a subscriber could get even more detailed by looking at the compound earnings growth rates from each year. We've taken the suspense out of the equation and compiled this information ourselves:
Note that the above numbers represent the compound rate dating back to each period. So the very fast growth we saw earlier is averaged out by the slower growth more recently. Still, a couple of percent points per year over long-time periods can really add up. Here we can see that growth has slowed, but is still quite reasonable.
In turn, you can observe Microsoft's P/E ratio react accordingly to the slower growth. At the turn of the century, Microsoft's P/E casually resided in the 40's while today it stands a bit closer to 15. Moving forward you might expect it to remain closer to the latter rather than the former. Interestingly, paying 40 times earnings or 15 times earnings can lead to the same performance results: it's the underlying business performance that drives this factor in the long-term.
Perhaps an even better gauge of a company's maturation progression is what it elects to do with its earnings. In the early stages companies often reinvest mightily to quickly expand its operations. But eventually there are only so many profitable ventures to take on and companies generally look to return the excess flow to shareholders. This usually takes the form of share repurchases or dividends.
To the point of dividends, this has been alluded to somewhat already, but is easily observed in the following performance table. A dividend was initiated in 2003 and has been growing at a healthy pace since then - despite the idea that Microsoft is still paying out well under half of its profits. Further, Microsoft started the dividend party off right by offering a $3 special dividend in 2004.
Behind the scenes, the share repurchase program has begun to take hold as well. Using the Fundamental Underlying Number (FUN) chart below, we see that Microsoft began substantially reducing share count after 2005. So much so that common shares outstanding have declined by almost 3% per year for the last 8 years.
Moving forward, we believe that it is important to keep these concepts in mind. It is apparent that Microsoft likely will not return to its fast growth days of yesteryear. However, the company is expected to grow at a decent pace moving forward. Specifically, analysts come to a consensus long-term earnings per share growth rate estimate of about 8.3% - not unimaginable given room for population growth and new products coupled with a healthy buyback program. If these estimates come to fruition - and Microsoft's shares trade at a 15 multiple in the future - this would represent an 11.2% annualized return.
Now, it's paramount to underscore the idea that this is simply a calculator, but it does provide a sensible baseline for how analysts are presently viewing this company.
In sum, when you look at a standard F.A.S.T. Graph as often depicted on Seeking Alpha by us, or any one of the numerous authors that choose to feature them in their articles, realize that it is a static graph. Granted, this single time frame provides an enormous amount of information at-a-glance. Yet a user also has the opportunity to view a company in multiple time periods. In the case of Microsoft we found this to be an extraordinary valuable feature. We saw a company move from growing at 40% a year with a P/E in the 40's to a company growing at 10% a year with a 15 P/E. In both cases an investor's performance return results were not solely a result of the price-to-earnings ratio paid, but rather by the interaction between earnings growth and price.
For the pure total return investor, you would plausibly prefer to find a company in the growth stage rather than the maturation phase. (Swinging for the fence is a lot easier to do if you're growing at 40% rather than 10%) But keep in mind the idea that you would likely be paying a higher multiple for the chance at higher growth. Today, not many would suggest Microsoft is the high-flying growth choice. After-all, not only is it near impossible to double its share in some segments, but a solid portion of earnings are already earmarked for dividends and share repurchases. Yet this does not preclude the company from reasonable growth. The dynamics of slower growth coupled with a lower valuation multiple mean that this well-established company doesn't have to knock the cover off the ball for investors to find reasonable returns moving forward. However, as always, we recommend that the reader conduct his or her own thorough due diligence.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140514
SYMBOL = DISH
The satellite TV company once again managed to post subscriber gains in an environment in which the pay-TV industry is losing subscribers.
DISH has benefited from its promotional offers, AutoHop DVR and the ongoing migration of subscribers from cable to satellite.
We believe these initiatives will continue to drive DISH's pay-TV operations in the near term.
DISH Network (NASDAQ:DISH) recently reported its Q1 2014 earnings. The company reported 7% growth in revenues while net income declined 19% to $171 million. The decline in profits was driven by reductions in other income. If we look at the two important trends, pay-TV subscribers and ARPU (average monthly subscription fee), both were positive for the company. Dish added 40,000 subscribers during the first quarter and ARPU improved 5% as compared to the prior year period. 
The satellite company has once again managed to post subscriber gains in an environment in which the pay-TV industry is losing subscribers. It must be noted that in 2013, the U.S. pay-TV industry saw a decline of over 104,000 subscribers. [2] DISH benefited from its initiatives to retain customers and the first quarter churn rate was down to 1.42%, a 5 basis point improvement compared to last year. Going forward, we expect satellite companies such as DISH to continue adding more subscribers in the near term. The company saw half of the benefit of its price increase in first quarter ARPU and full benefit will be seen in second quarter, according to management. 
We currently have a price estimate of $50 for DISH, which we will soon update based on the recent earnings announcement.
DISH's pay-TV operations contribute close to 70% to its value, according to our estimates. DISH saw steady growth in the first quarter. ARPU grew 5% to $82.36 and the subscriber base increased to 14.097 million from 14.092 million in the prior year period. Subscriber-related expenses increased by 8% in the first quarter versus the prior period, reflecting higher pay-TV programming expense. [1] While the satellite industry posted solid growth over the past few years, the growing availability of online content as an alternative video platform, along with an expanding market for connected devices, poses a competitive challenge to the entire pay-TV industry in the U.S. DISH has benefited from its promotional offers, AutoHop DVR and the ongoing migration of subscribers from cable to satellite. We believe these factors will continue to drive DISH's pay-TV operations in the near term.
As far as wireless plans are concerned, DISH had won the bidding for H-Block spectrum in the first quarter. The company now owns 50 megahertz of downlink spectrum. DISH is now looking forward for the AWS-3 auction, which may take place later this year. [3] This spectrum is adjacent to DISH's existing spectrum and the FCC will auction 25 megahertz of downlink spectrum under AWS-3. We'll be closely monitoring the developments on this front. However, the most important auction for wireless operators will be the 600 megahertz band, and would be the lowest and most valuable frequency sold yet. It is currently used by television stations and will be resold to carriers for wireless use. This auction may take place in mid-2015.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140514
SYMBOL = TXN
Higher revenues, combined with an improving product mix and better factory utilization, increased gross margin to 52.1% in 2013.
In Q1 2014, gross margin further improved to 53.9%.
The company believes that the analog and embedded segments offer long-term growth and less volatility compared to the past.
Lower revenue, increased capacity, under-utilization charges and the acquisition of its large analog competitor, National Semiconductor, impaired Texas Instruments' (NASDAQ:TXN) gross profits in the last few years. The severe earthquake in Japan in early 2011 significantly reduced revenue for both TI and the industry. Though the impact of Japan abated, revenue growth was further undermined by management's decision to exit the cellular application processor business. TI's gross margins declined from 53.6% in 2010 to 49.7% in 2012. However, higher revenues, combined with an improving product mix and better factory utilization, increased gross margin to 52.1% in 2013. In Q1 2014, gross margin further improved to 53.9%.
We believe that TI's gross margins will improve marginally over our review period. In this article, we explain our rationale behind this view.
Higher Proportion Of Revenue From More Profitable Analog And Embedded Products
Since its planned exit from the smartphone and tablet market, TI has been increasing its focus on differentiated analog and digital products. The company has increased its focus on higher value and high performance analog products as well as differentiated digital products it develops and markets within the embedded processing segment. As a result, though profitability will continue to vary with market conditions, TI has a higher value offering. It believes that the analog and embedded segments offer it long-term growth and less volatility compared to the past. These segments are more profitable and less capital intensive compared to wireless products.
TI believes that the analog and embedded processor market will keep growing as important markets such as industrial and automotive continue to embrace electronic technology. It derived 84% of its revenue from these segments in Q1 2014 compared to approximately 72% in the quarter ended September 2012.
Higher Revenue Base To Improve Factory Utilization
TI has added close to $7 billion worth of incremental revenue generating capacity in the last few years. Though there is potentially excess manufacturing capacity, much of it is largely depreciated. Thus it remains a competitive advantage for the company in the long run. The increasing scale of operation also gives TI a greater control over its operational costs.
With an improvement in the macro environment, TI can leverage its low-cost manufacturing capacity to cater to higher market demand. Higher demand for its products will increase factory utilization, allowing high profitability as utilization improves. TI's under-utilization charges declined from $100 million in Q2 2013 to to $70 million in Q3 2013. Though the company did not disclose the utilization levels in its Q1 2014 earnings materials, its did declare that factory utilization from a stats basis was higher compared to Q4 2013.
Because of TI's increased focus on the analog and embedded markets, we estimate its revenue base will expand year-on-year for the rest of our review period. Higher revenue will improve factory utilization.
Lower Depreciation In The Future
At present, TI's depreciation is $459 million ahead of its capital expenditures. The company expects its capital expenditure to remain at low levels (4% of revenue) for the next few years. As depreciation starts to work itself down over the next couple of years, it will boost gross margins.
Cost Savings: Annualized Savings of $140 Million In 2014
TI's ongoing restructuring initiative is a result of the ongoing assessment of its investments and the market opportunities that it addresses. For 2014, TI believes the following initiatives will result in annualized savings of about $130 million.
TI plans to reduce costs in certain embedded processing product lines that either have matured or do not offer the return opportunities the company is looking for. It does not plan to exit any market or discontinue any existing embedded products, but is simply realigning its resources to better cater to market opportunities. It believes that these changes will accelerate a profit margin improvement in the embedded business while still maintaining its pace of growth.
Lowering costs in Japan as a result of reducing resources to a level that meets opportunity in the country. Elimination of 1,100 jobs.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140514
SYMBOL = CTL
CenturyLink’s current dividend yield is more attractive than the dividend yield of Verizon communication and AT&T.
The stock has picked up the pace and is trading at an eleven-month high price of $36.86.
CenturyLink is expanding its data centers capacity and dropping its prices to enhance its penetration in the cloud market.
CenturyLink (NYSE:CTL) reported a mixed bag of earnings for the first quarter of fiscal year 2014. CenturyLink's overall business revenues were $1.56 billion reflecting an improvement of 3.6% due to the growth in high-bandwidth offerings and data integration revenues offset by lower legacy services revenues. Data integration revenues were $35 million higher in the first quarter of 2014 compared to the first quarter of 2013. The strategic business services continued to be a key revenue driver in the first quarter of 2014 increasing 6.7% year-over-year to $655 million due to gains in MPLS and Ethernet services. However there were also a few declines. The company's business segment's margins remained under pressure and declined to 38% from 43.1% in the same quarter of prior year primarily due to higher costs related to business revenue growth such as CPE, facility and sales and marketing costs, the impact of certain favorable one-time expenses experienced in the first quarter of 2013, and the fall in legacy revenues.
Just like the earlier quarter, the consumer segment continued to follow the trend and its revenue stream was driven by broadband and prism TV subscriber additions. During the quarter CenturyLink added about 24,000 Prism TV customers increasing the penetration of more than 2 million addressable homes to nearly 10%. The company also added nearly 66,000 high-speed internet customers ending the period with more than 6 million customers.
The strategic consumer business also added good growth numbers and generated $702 million in revenues for the quarter with 8.8% growth over the first quarter of 2013. Apart from that growth the total consumer revenues remained flat at nearly $1.51 billion which reflected growth in strategic services offset by the continued decline in legacy services. In the wholesale segment the story continues to center around fiber to the tower (FTTT) services. The company ended the quarter with over 19,200 fiber-connected towers, up nearly 24 percent from the first quarter of 2013. While Ethernet-based FTTT services are its growth engine strategic revenues remained flat year-over-year at $570 million as increases in wireless carrier bandwidth demand and Ethernet sales were offset by declines in copper-based revenue.
Weak Wholesale Business Could Not Deliver Results
Unlike the other segments' performances the wholesale segment could not perform well and revenues declined 4.9% to $862 million year-over-year due to the ongoing decline in legacy revenues primarily driven by lower long distance and switched access minutes of use along with access rate reductions from implementations of the CAF Order(6). During the quarter the company extended fiber to about 395 towers but lowered the annual fiber build estimates to 2,500 to 3,000 for full-year 2014 due to customer decisions to defer certain sites into 2015.
From an overall revenue standpoint, CenturyLink reported revenues of $4.11 billion nearly flat year-over-year compared with a 2% year-over-year decline in the first quarter of 2013. Looking towards the second quarter CenturyLink's forecasted revenues and operating cash flow will be impacted by lower data integration revenue and ongoing legacy revenue declines. The company expects to report operating revenues of $4.48 billion to $4.53 billion and core revenues of $4.07 billion to $4.12 billion. CenturyLink also expects a strong sales momentum going into the second quarter and early success with its new managed office solutions as well as the continued strength in multi-site MPLS sakes.
CenturyLink Is Trying To Take a Big Slice of the Cloud Market
CenturyLink jumped into the cloud market with the acquisition of Savvis Inc., a provider of global cloud infrastructure and hosted IT solutions. Savvis is the backbone of another phase of CenturyLink's business, CenturyLink Technology Solutions, which provides managed and hosted services for government and enterprises. In 2013 CenturyLink continued to strengthen its cloud portfolio with the acquisition of AppFog, a Portland-based platform-as-a-service used by more than 100,000 developers to automate the deployment of software on public clouds such as Amazon web services (NASDAQ:AMZN) and OpenStack. CenturyLink also acquired Tier 3, a Seattle-based infrastructure-as-a-service, platform and advanced cloud management company.
Through these acquisitions CenturyLink joined big technology giants like Amazon, Google (NASDAQ:GOOG) (NASDAQ:GOOGL), and Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT). Despite the immense growth potential in the cloud and big data market the competition is becoming intense as more and more tech companies are using their resources to succeed in this industry for the sake of their future growth. The platform-as-a-service is forecasted to reach $2.9 billion by the end of 2016.
CenturyLink is expanding the capacity of its datacenters and dropping its prices to enhance its penetration pace. CenturyLink also has an enormous network of 56 global data centers that it believes will allow the company to keep outbound pricing significantly cheaper than Amazon's web services. The company doubled its public cloud capacity with the acquisition of Tier 3 and it is seeking to remain competitive. One of Savvis' six datacenters in Santa Clara, California now includes a Tier 3 cloud node. In Washington, where Savvis also operates multiple datacenters, another has been converted for use as a Tier 3-style, CenturyLink Public Cloud Center.
With those two conversions CenturyLink now has 11 operating cloud centers and will add one in Canada and one in the United Kingdom this quarter. It will add two more in the Asia-Pacific region in the third and fourth quarters bringing its total to 15 with an additional center to be added at an undisclosed location by the end of the year. With these efforts the company could gain profitable revenues and earnings.
The solid point to consider about CenturyLink is its quite impressive dividend yield. Currently the company is paying $2.16 per share dividends with a 6.78% yield that is higher than the 5.05% dividend yield of AT&T (NYSE:T) and 4.37% dividend yield of Verizon (NYSE:VZ). Over the past five years CenturyLink has maintained its yield between 6.28% and 7.80% which is an indication that safe and stable dividends can be expected in the future. Year to date the stock has gone up around 16% although it may not appreciate too much during 2014. However, up until now it has performed well enough and combined with the attractive dividend yield this stock is good enough to offer investors safe returns.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140514
SYMBOL = DUK
Duke made a pre-tax charge of $1.4 billion that was tied to Duke’s exit from its Midwest commercial generation business.
Excluding the exit Duke’s revenues and earnings topped analysts’ estimates for the first quarter.
Up until now Duke has invested $2.5 billion on its wind projects and this is the right move to strengthen its position and reap the benefits from the growing wind.
Duke Energy (NYSE:DUK) has delighted investors with recent growing numbers. The nation's largest power company posted a loss of $97 million or $0.14 per share compared to last year's profit of $634 million or $0.89 per share. The earnings results were adversely impacted due to a pre-tax charge of $1.4 billion or $1.23 per share that was tied to Duke's decision to exit from its Midwest commercial generation business. However apart from that Duke's overall results were strong enough to beat analysts' earnings estimates.
Duke Beats the Estimates
In the first quarter Duke's revenues received a healthy jump of 12% and reached $6.6 billion from $5.89 billion in the first quarter of 2014; analysts were expecting $6.44 billion in revenues. The strong growth came from the regulated electric business that added $5.578 billion in revenues reflecting an increase of around 14.1%. The revenue growth from the non-regulated electric, natural gas, and other sources remained flat however regulated natural gas revenues increased 20% to $222 million. The improved revenues stream was on the back of serving power to approximately 7.2 million electric customers in six states in the Southeast and Midwest. Duke also experienced a 2.6% jump in retail sales mostly driven by residential and commercial customers for the quarter compared to the previous period.
Excluding one-time items, adjusted earnings boosted $1.17 per share from $1.02 and topped the analysts' earnings estimate of $1.12 per share. The higher adjusted earnings were driven by the favorable revision of customer rates and strong weather-normalized retail volumes. The extreme cold weather led to strong growth for energy across the company's service territories and the company experienced its third consecutive quarter of improved economic growth.
The future earnings stream is likely to be supported by the strong performance of its regulated utilities business that contributed $737 million reflecting an increase of 12% from same quarter of prior year. The improved net margins were responsible for the net income growth. Duke's international business includes 4,600 megawatts of generation in Latin America half of which is hydro generation in Brazil. This business represents around 10% to 15% of Duke Energy's earnings mix and historically has been a good performer. The international business continued its growth trend and generated $130 million adjusted earnings compared to $97 million in the first quarter of 2013. The improvement in the quarterly results was due to better results in Latin America, higher spot volumes, and pricing in Brazil.
Wind Energy May Take Duke Higher
Although the commercial power business is a small proportion of Duke's total portfolio it is important due to the improved earnings that are being driven by renewable resources. For the first quarter the commercial business generated $10 million in adjusted net income compared to $6 million in the first quarter of the previous year. The growth was primarily from favorable wind production and lower associated costs. Going forward, the renewable resources may become one of the key earning drivers for Duke. In the U.S. wind turbine system market demand is expected to grow 55% annually through 2018 to $18.9 billion reflecting a nearly nine-fold increase compared to the depressed 2013 sales.
Duke entered the wind industry with the acquisition of Austin, Texas-based Tierra energy. Since then Duke has invested $2.5 billion to strengthen its foothold in the wind industry and now the company owns and operates 15 wind farms including a 50% stake in the Sweetwater project. Duke is headed in the right direction by enhancing its wind energy portfolio and with the completion of two wind power projects in South Texas Duke will be in a better position to reap the benefits from the industry growth.
Comparatively Duke is the better performer compared to other utility stocks. Duke possesses various bright spots to attract the investors' attention. Duke's revenue stream is way above its close competitors such as American Electric Power (NYSE:AEP) and PPL Corporation (NYSE:PPL). Duke's profit margins are even higher than the industry and two of its competitors which gives Duke the advantage of maintaining higher profitability in the future. Due to its strong performance Duke's higher net income and earnings per share are good enough to reward investors in the form of improved and stable dividends.
On a P/E multiple basis Duke is less expensive than the industry average, PPL, and CenterPoint Energy (NYSE:CNP). Duke is trading at a twelve months P/E of 19.62X which is significantly lower than the industry's P/E of 30.56X. Duke is slightly more expensive than American Electric but this is justified because Duke is expected to grow 13.8% in the current quarter and 10.30% in the next quarter while in comparison American Electric is expected to grow 4.10% in the current quarter and growth is expected to decline 2.7% in the next quarter.
Apart from the recent impressive performance Duke is one of the attractive dividend-yielding stocks. The stock is currently paying an annual dividend of $3.12 per share with a dividend yield of 4.23% while in contrast American Electric is paying an annual dividend of $2 per share with a 3.74% yield and CenterPoint Energy is paying a dividend of $0.95 per share with a 3.88% yield. The dividend stream is likely to remain stable because the company now has $856 million in free cash flows in its basket after allowing for $5.5 billion for capital expenditure along with $1.55 billion cash and short-term investment to aid in future dividend payments.
Duke continues to do better than expected in costs savings and is achieving its 2015 target to shift its energy mix proportion primarily from coal towards nuclear and natural gas. The company will experience more improved earnings in the future due to favorable natural gas pricing and increasing electric demand from nuclear generation due to the retirement of older plants in the industry and lack of investment in the new nuclear plants. Over the past twelve months the stock has not seen a significant jump but year to date this stock has performed well and is up 8%. The analysts' target price for this stock is $77 reflecting an upside potential of 4.4%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140514
SYMBOL = ORCL
In its recently concluded Q3FY14, Oracle reported a 24% increase in quarterly revenues from its cloud business.
However, the company has lagged behind rival SAP AG in terms of cloud revenue growth.
Through its "Customer 2 Cloud" program, the company aims to accelerate customer migration from on-premise applications to its Oracle Cloud applications.
Oracle (NYSE:ORCL) is the world's second largest software company in the multi-billion dollar software development market with revenues in excess of $37 billion and a market capitalization of $187 billion. The company competes with other large-cap software development companies such as SAP (NYSE:SAP), IBM (NYSE:IBM) and Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT). Competition within the rapidly expanding Software-as-a-Service market has been intense, and players across the board have increased their investments to grow fast and capture maximum share.
In the recently concluded Q3FY14, Oracle reported a 24% increase to $292 million in quarterly revenues from its cloud business. (Oracle's fiscal years end with May.) However, the company has lagged behind rival SAP AG in terms of cloud revenue growth. In the latter's recently concluded Q1FY14, SAP reported a 38% increase in cloud revenues to $316 million. Recently, Oracle announced the "Customer 2 Cloud" program as an effort to boost growth rate in its cloud business. [1] Through the program, the company expects to accelerate customer migration from on-premise applications such as Oracle's Human Capital Management (HCM) and Customer Relationship Management (CRM, respectively acquired with PeopleSoft and Siebel) onto Oracle Cloud applications.
In this quick take, we look at the company's Customer 2 Cloud program and its impact on the overall cloud revenue growth rate for Oracle. We have a $45 Trefis price estimate for Oracle which stands at an 8% premium to its current market price of $42.
"Customer 2 Cloud" Program Could Boost Oracle's Cloud Revenues
Currently, the Customer 2 Cloud program is open to all existing Oracle HCM and CRM customers on Siebel, PeopleSoft, JD Edwards and Oracle E-business suite platforms. Customers having on-premise applications installed on these platforms can be redirected to suitable Oracle Cloud offerings within the same product vertical. As an example, Oracle PeopleSoft clients with on-premise installations of the HCM offering are given an opportunity to free up their support spend for these on-premise deployments and invest those dollars on a modern offering, such as an Oracle Human Capital Management (HCM) cloud subscription.
Through this program, Oracle gains additional customers from its on-premise offerings onto an SaaS model, which should boost revenue over the long term. On the other hand, enterprise customers get to reduce their total cost of ownership (TCO) by migrating from the on-premise deployment model onto a SaaS model. The program also offers various tools to make businesses cloud ready at a rapid pace, depending on customer needs. We believe the intention of this program is to further accelerate migration from on-premise deployments onto Oracle cloud. Successful adoption of the program should be able to boost Oracle's cloud revenues going forward.
Moreover, margins are expected to increase through the growth in the cloud business. Oracle's gross margins currently stand at 81.6% for CY13 (ended December 2013) compared to Salesforce's gross margins of 85% for FY14 (ended January 2014). The higher margin from Salesforce indicates potential upside available from gaining a significant chunk of revenues from cloud deployments. The margin expansion from cloud primarily occurs due to lower software publishing and hardware depreciation charges, partially offset by higher data center related costs. However, at the current phase of Oracle Cloud, gross margin expansion is difficult as it only contributes to a small portion of the company's $38 billion in revenues.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140514
SYMBOL = AMZN
Amazon.com Inc. recently announced that it has entered into an agreement with Twitter Inc. allowing customers to add products to their carts by using the hashtag “#AmazonCart."
This will enable Amazon to serve in accordance with the emerging trend of social shopping trends among customers.
Twitter will benefit from the advertisement revenue from the e-commerce industry as Amazon plans to increase its budget and spending on advertising products on Twitter.
Amazon will also attract more members as it signed a deal with HBO last month that will allow Amazon to stream HBO’s videos through Amazon’s video streaming service.
The online retail giant, Amazon.com Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN), accounts for about 2% of worldwide retail sales and has recently announced that it has entered into an agreement with Twitter Inc. (NYSE:TWTR). This agreement will allow Amazon customers to add products to their shopping carts by using the hashtag "#AmazonCart" to any tweet with a product's Amazon hyperlink. In this article, I will discuss this deal and how it will benefit both parties. I will also elaborate prospects for Amazon and some other exciting products and services the company is offering its customers to grow its business.
What is the Deal About?
The idea behind this deal is that Amazon.com shoppers can add items to their Amazon shopping carts through their Twitter accounts. This will be done simply by replying to product offering tweets containing the product's Amazon hyperlink with the hashtag #AmazonCart. The next time the customers visit Amazon, the chosen item will be waiting in their virtual cart.
Users will be required to link their Amazon accounts with their Twitter accounts to avail the new service. The shopping tweets will be shared publicly on Twitter feeds if the user's account is unlocked as stated on Amazon's website. The items will not be bought until users go to their Amazon shopping carts to complete the transactions. Twitter users will get a response tweet from @MyAmazon along with an email from Amazon when the item is successfully added to their cart.
According to Amazon's spokesperson, #AmazonCart is intended to assist customers by adding products to their carts for later purchase without leaving Twitter.
Presently, this service is only available in the U.S. and the U.K., with the hashtag "#AmazonBasket" used in the U.K. Presently, Twitter users can add items to Amazon's cart, but to confirm the order, they have to visit Amazon and process the transaction.
How Will Twitter Benefit?
Twitter will not get any revenues in the form of sales commission from this partnership apparently, and it will not get a cut of individual sales made from the deal with Amazon. According to Bloomberg News, Amazon intends to increase its budget and spending on Twitter advertising products. This deal will generate advertisement dollars for Twitter from the e-commerce industry and retailers. Twitter has also been looking forward to new revenue streams beyond advertising services such as promoted tweets.
Twitter has been putting efforts into persuading advertisers and retailers by adding tools to help the company reach its 255 million users. By facilitating e-commerce, Twitter is hoping to retain consumers on its site for extended time and gather more information about their interests and shopping habits. This information will be valuable for advertisers and will add to the company's revenue. Twitter hired former Ticketmaster executive Nathan Hubbard as head of commerce last year to boost its efforts add direct shopping options on its site.
But will #AmazonCart work, and will it drive value for AMZN stock or Twitter?
Prospects for Amazon
A spokesperson from Amazon stated that Twitter offers a great environment for Amazon's customers to find out product recommendations from artists, experts, brands, and friends. The deal is Amazon's attempt to make social media a greater source for sales. The deal will enable Amazon to gain from potential customers' impulse-buying practices by making it easier to add items to their shopping carts without having to visit Amazon.com.
Although the financial benefits to Amazon have not yet been disclosed, a partnership between a social media player and an e-commerce giant is not a new thing. One can look it as an emerging trend that Amazon is adapting. For example, Chinese Twitter-like service Weibo Corp. ADR (NASDAQ:WB) has a similar partnership arrangement with an e-commerce giant Alibaba Group. The items sold by dealers on Alibaba's Taobao Marketplace are integrated with the microblogging service. This allows users to browse as well as buy products as the "buy" button is added to products' webpages on Weibo. The buy order on Weibo is then processed via Alipay, a service used by Alibaba to procure payments. This integration made Alibaba account for 43% of Weibo's ad revenues during the holiday season. This indicates that integration between an e-commerce giant and a social media company is beneficial for both parties. Now, let us discuss the emerging trend of social shopping that forms the market in which the Amazon and Twitter has entered.
The Trend of Social Shopping and its Outlook
As the use of social media is increasing, shopping has turned into more of a social activity. Social media is altering the way consumers around the world make buying decisions. The consumers are now using and relying more on social media to take note and learn about other consumers' experiences (70%); to find and gain more information about brands, products and services (65%); and commending brands (53%).
Social media has turned into a fundamental part of an inclusive online sales methodology, especially for millennial purchase process. Millennials, people born in 1980-2000, are the biggest generation of customers ever According to Teen Vogue's March 2014 Seeing Social survey on young U.S. women (age 13-29 or the millennial women), concerning the part social media plays in their beauty and fashion purchase process; 85% of the respondents bought an item after viewing it on a social media network. Twenty-six percent of the respondents stated they make a purchase directly from a social network. Furthermore, 47% of the respondents favored being able to purchase a product they viewed directly from the social network.
Amazon: Other Initiatives for Growth and Expansion
The Deal with HBO and Prospects from the Video Streaming Market
Amazon and Time Warner's (NYSE:TWX) Home Box Office, HBO, signed a streaming deal during the last week of April 2014 to stream HBOs videos through Amazon's video streaming service. This is the first time that HBO has licensed its programming for an online-only video streaming service. The deal will help Amazon to compete with Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX), the frontrunner of the video streaming market. Amazon has already surpassed Hulu and Apple Inc. (NASDAQ:AAPL) in the video streaming market in the U.S.
In the last 12 months, Amazon Prime's instant video service traffic has grown by 94% in comparison to the previous 12 months. This deal will certainly attract more customers to Amazon Prime even with the increased membership fee of $ 99 per annum. The Cisco (NASDAQ:CSCO) VNI initiative has estimated that global consumer internet video traffic, as a percentage of the total consumer internet traffic, will grow from 57% in 2012 to 69% in 2017. Furthermore, the use of internet TV will grow by 5 times from 2012-2017. This represents prodigious growth prospects for Amazon to capitalize on the video streaming industry.
Delivery Upgrades and Concluding Remarks
After testing Sunday deliveries in New York and Los Angeles for a few months, Amazon.com Inc. has recently announced it would offer this service to Houston and 14 other cities in the U.S. Amazon and the have planned to expand its Sunday delivery services to a large portion of the U.S. population in FY 2014. Sunday delivery is accessible to Amazon customers without any extra charges. The notice of the service will appear at the checkout page if the service is available in the customer's region. Moreover Amazon has been putting efforts into rapidly expanding its warehouses and fulfillment services. These efforts are being made in an attempt to take over the delivery retail market.
The recently-announced partnership between Amazon and Twitter is in-line with the emerging trend of social shopping, and the integration will benefit both parties. While Twitter will be able to attract advertisement money from the e-commerce industry, Amazon will be able to take advantage of customers' impulse-buying practices. Moreover, Amazon is also enacting other initiatives to expand its business. The company signed a video streaming deal with HBO last month that will bring in more subscribers to the company's video streaming services. The company has also expanded its Sunday delivery facilities to more regions and is putting efforts into developing its warehouse and fulfillment facilities. These initiatives enacted by the company make it a worthwhile investment.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140514
SYMBOL = NFLX
Netflix recently raised the monthly price for its streaming service in the U.S. by $1.
We believe that, unlike in 2011, when abrupt price changes led to a loss of customers, the price increase won't impact the company’s subscriber growth.
Our analysis shows that Netflix can add roughly $500 million in annual incremental revenues in the U.S. alone by 2017 with this move.
Netflix (NASDAQ:NFLX) recently raised the monthly price for its streaming service in the U.S. by $1, and made a somewhat similar adjustment to its international streaming plans as well. [1] [2] The increased pricing will apply only to new customers whereas current subscribers will continue to pay the same price for two years. We believe that unlike 2011, when the abrupt price changes led to an exodus of a large number of customers, the current price increment will be rolled out without affecting the company’s subscriber growth materially. Netflix has been much more communicative about its pricing strategy this time, and the increase is significantly less than what it was in 2011. Overall, our analysis shows that Netflix can add roughly $500 million in annual incremental revenues in the U.S. alone by 2017 with this move. This will help it support its margins which may come under threat from rising content costs. We have incorporated these expectations in our pricing model.
Our $281 price estimate for Netflix stands at a discount of about 20% to the market.
With The Price Increase, Netfix Can Add An Additional $750 Million In Annual Revenues By 2017
Netflix’s average monthly revenue per subscriber in the U.S. stood at $7.57 in 2013, or 95% of the actual price of $7.99. The average realized price differs from the actual because of promotional discounts and free trials. This implies that a $1 increase in monthly price will result in average monthly revenue per subscriber going up by $0.95. Assuming that this price increase takes effect in mid 2014, and current subscribers are shifted to new price plans after two years (mid 2016), we conclude that Netflix will generate additional revenues of $18 million, $60 million, $310 million and $549 million in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively. The table below summarizes these findings which are based on the assumption that the subscriber base will grow from 33.4 million at the end of 2013 to 49.4 million by the end of 2017. Additionally, we expect Netflix to gain roughly $200-$250 million in incremental revenues from price changes in international markets, taking the global total to more than $750 million by in 2017.
High Customer Satisfaction And Content Leadership Will Help Smooth Roll Out Of Price Increase
Netflix’s content leadership and improving customer satisfaction have been the primary reasons behind its success and will help the company in mitigating the impact of new pricing on its subscriber growth. Given the company’s statements during its recent earnings announcement, we deduce that the churn levels may have come down. Therefore, net additions are being fueled by a lower number of disconnects rather than the strength in gross subscriber additions. That’s positive news for the company but also signals a maturing business. In addition to this, Netflix’s focus on bringing original content has paid off. Season 2 of House of Cards was a big hit and more original content is lined up for this summer. This will help the company mitigate the slowdown in subscriber growth due to seasonality and offset the impact of the upcoming soccer World Cup. Netflix is also trying to reduce the window of delay in terms of syndicating its original content in international markets and has made its original episodes available as early as one week or 24 hours after they were released in the the U.S.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140514
SYMBOL = BAC
A host of negative news on Bank of America caused the stock to plunge by 15% since March 2014.
The bank has sped up the resolution of its legal problems and the management sees the light at the end of tunnel.
A stock price turnaround is imminent once investor anxiety regarding litigation issues settles down.
Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) has been hit hard by an accounting error which saw its regulatory capital decrease, followed by the Federal Reserve suspend immediate cash outflows to investors. Another factor denting the bank's prospects was a huge $6 billion charge in Q1 FY 2014 pushing the bottom-line into the red zone. Investors fear that legal suits will continue to bleed the earnings in the quarters to come. However, it may be that the worst is over for the bank and one could benefit from this dip in price as a chance to invest in it.
Bank of America fell victim to some serious negative developments in April 2014. These developments have changed investor sentiment and caused the stock price to fall below $15 from a high of $17.92 in March 2014. The chart below shows the share has dipped by about 15% from $17.92 in less than two months.
How Much of the Negative Sentiment is Warranted?
The recent stock price fall was driven by two factors. I will discuss each of the separately and determine whether or not investor anxiety is justified.
Investor Remuneration
The bank reported it found an accounting miscalculation of $4 billion after announcing its Q1 FY 2014 results. The error caused the bank to calculate higher-than-actual capital. So, does this mean the bank, according to correct mathematical working, would fall below the regulatory capital amount? I do not think so. The bank is still well-capitalized and the error does not pose a threat to the bank on that front. The Federal Reserve has taken notice of this error and asked Bank of America to suspend its capital plan and resubmit it. The plan includes a $4 billion share buyback as well as raising the quarterly dividend from 1 cent to 5 cents. The capital plan clearly had value for investors but the accounting mistake has not dented Bank of America's financial health. Bank of America can submit the capital plan to the Federal Reserve by May 27, after which the Federal Reserve will have 75 days to respond. In my opinion, the Federal Reserve just wants to make sure Bank of America is in good financial health and should have no problem approving the capital plan once it is presented. So, the investor remuneration has surely been delayed but not revoked for ever.
The bank has been troubled by a number of lawsuits over the past few years. The most recent quarterly result shocked investors with a $6 billion charge for litigation losses. However, after close analysis it becomes evident that $3.6 billion of this $6 billion was utilized to settle Federal Housing Finance Agency claims. Since the suit has been troubling the company since October 2012, closing these claims should be a relief. Also, the bank has revised its estimate for aggregate range of possible litigation losses from $6.1 billion. This is a good sign and shows the bank's management is hopeful about a less expensive resolution of the remaining claims.
A Turnaround is Imminent
So, increased dividends and share repurchases should be offered to investors soon and the worst seems behind the bank as far as legal suits are concerned. The recent stock slide of 15% seems less than rational and provides a good opportunity to purchase the stock at cheap levels. The company's core business looks fundamentally strong and the Q1 FY 2014 results of $0.05 LPS would look so much better without the $0.40 per share litigation loss.
The stock has more than discounted the bad Q1 FY 2014 results and delay in the capital plan. Bank of America is currently trading in oversold territory. A recovery is imminent due to strong fundamentals and we might see it immediately in the Q2 FY 2014 results. As per the Q1 earnings release, the bank has a book value of $20.75 and a tangible book value of $13.81. With a price of around $14.9 as of May 09, 2014 Bank of America is trading at 0.72x of its book value compared to 1.0x for JPMorgan Chase & Co (NYSE:JPM) and 3.2x for Wells Fargo & Co (NYSE:WFC). The discount was caused by the uncertainties associated with the bank's litigation issues but after recent updates in the bank's 10-Q filing the uncertainties have significantly reduced. I would recommend buying the stock for a rally to $18 and above.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140514
SYMBOL = VMI
Valmont Industries' recently announced a plan to return cash to shareholders through increased dividends and a $500 million share repurchase program.
Applying this share reduction to previous assumptions yields a significant increase in estimated fair value.
As shares remain materially undervalued, I believe that this represents a shrewd application of capital.
Valmont Industries (NYSE:VMI) announced its capital allocation philosophy on Tuesday, outlining priorities for capital over the next few years. These included the announcement of a $500 million share repurchase program and common share dividends on the range of 15% of the prior year's fully diluted net earnings. Valmont had already announced a 50% increase in its quarterly dividend from $0.25 / share to $0.3725 per share, with a forward yield at current market prices of 0.94%. Capital expenditures for the next 3 years are forecast to run in line with recent years, totaling $340 million for the period. The market reacted favorably to this announcement, bidding up VMI's shares by about 5% as of this writing.
Valmont's share repurchase program will be conducted over the next 12 months through the open market and through privately managed transactions, funded through working capital and short-term debt. Assuming all $500 million allocated for the program is used, and assuming an average market price of $160 / share, this would reduce shares outstanding from 26.8 million to 23.7 million. This would raise forecasted 2014 diluted EPS from $10.00-10.50 to $11.30-11.90. I had previously derived a FV of $168, implying a forward PE of 16. Applying the same forward PE to adjusted EPS would yield a new FV estimate of $185. Under a highly conservative scenario, assuming that only a 25% portion of shares outstanding are actually repurchased, and assuming an higher average cost per share of $170, we arrive at a new FV estimate of $168. Averaging the two estimates yields an updated FV estimate of $177.
With current market prices hovering around $158 / share, I still believe shares are meaningfully undervalued, even after today's price action. Shares may be slightly overbought in the short term, and some additional downward volatility after today's run up may afford the chance for a better entry point. I believe that, given the undervalued status of Valmont's shares relative to their probable intrinsic value, that the share repurchasing program acts in the best interest of VMI shareholders. I am holding my shares and looking to add on any price weakness.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140514
SYMBOL = WMT
This quarter, Wall Street expects Wal-Mart's earnings to come in relatively flat compared to last year.
However, the Estimize community is looking for modest year-over-year growth of 3 cents per share and year-over-year revenue growth to the tune of 2%.
Recent earnings from Macy's suggest that the retail economy has not improved as much as optimists had hoped.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE:WMT) is set to report FQ1 2015 earnings before the market opens on Thursday, May 15. Wal-Mart is set to report one day after Macy's (NYSE:M) opened up the large retail earnings season on Tuesday. Macy's beat Wall Street's estimates by 1 cent per share, largely due to share purchasing. Macy's earnings report may be a sign that the retail economy has not improved as much as optimists had hoped for, after a particularly weak quarter this winter due to the poor weather.
This quarter, Wall Street is expecting Wal-Mart's earnings to come in 1 cent higher than they did in FQ1 of last year and for revenue to grow by only 1.5%. Here's what investors are expecting from Wal-Mart on Thursday.
The information below is derived from data submitted to the Estimize.com platform by a set of Buy Side and Independent analyst contributors.
The current Wall Street consensus expectation is for Wal-Mart to report $1.15 EPS and $115.947B revenue, while the current Estimize.com consensus from 24 Buy Side and Independent contributing analysts is $1.17 EPS and $116.429B in revenue. This quarter the buy side, as represented by the Estimize.com community, is expecting Wal-Mart to beat Wall Street's expectations by a considerable margin on both EPS and revenue.
Over the previous six quarters, the consensus from Estimize.com has been more accurate than Wall Street in forecasting Wal-Mart's EPS and revenue three times each. By tapping into a wider range of contributors including hedge fund analysts, asset managers, independent research shops, students, and non-professional investors Estimize has created a data set that is more accurate than Wall Street up to 69.5% of the time.
More importantly, it does a better job of representing the market's actual expectations. It has been confirmed by Deutsche Bank Quant. Research and an independent academic study from Rice University that stock prices tend to react with a more strongly associated degree to the expectation benchmark from Estimize than from the Wall Street consensus.
The magnitude of the difference between the Wall Street and Estimize consensus numbers often identifies opportunities to take advantage of expectations that may not have been priced into the market. Here we are seeing a larger than usual differential between the earnings expectations from Wall Street and Estimize.
The distribution of estimates published by analysts on the Estimize.com platform range from $1.13 to $1.27 EPS and from $115.833B to $118.100B in revenues. This quarter we're seeing a wide range of EPS estimates and a moderate range of revenue predictions.
The size of the distribution of estimates relative to previous quarters often signals whether or not the market is confident that it has priced in the expected earnings already. A wide distribution of estimates signals less agreement in the market, which could mean greater volatility post earnings.
Throughout the quarter, the Wall Street EPS consensus fell from a high of $1.25 to $1.15 while the Estimize consensus decreased from $1.25 to $1.17. Meanwhile, Wall Street reduced its revenue consensus from $118.243B to $115.947B while the Estimize consensus also declined from $118.134B to $116.429B throughout the quarter. Timeliness is correlated with downward analyst revisions from the Estimize community going into the report are often a bearish indicator, although the Estimize consensus still remains significantly higher than Wall Street's.
The analyst with the highest estimate confidence rating this quarter is j_holliman, who projects $1.16 EPS and $116.000B in revenue. j_holliman is ranked seventh overall among over 4,450 contributing analysts. Over the past two years, j_holliman has been more accurate than Wall Street in forecasting EPS and revenue 57% and 49% of the time, respectively, throughout 1,489 estimates.
Estimate confidence ratings are calculated through algorithms developed by deep quantitative research which looks at correlations between analyst track records and tendencies as they relate to future accuracy. In this case, j_holliman expects Wal-Mart to edge past the Street's expectations but fail to live up to the consensus from the Estimize community.
This quarter, Wall Street is expecting Wal-Mart's earnings to come in relatively flat compared to last year. However, the Estimize community is looking for modest year-over-year growth of 3 cents per share and year-over-year revenue growth to the tune of 2%. On Thursday, the Estimize community expects Wal-Mart to beat Wall Street's expectations by 2 cents per share in earnings and $482 million in sales.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140514
SYMBOL = M
How Omni-Channel has improved Macy’s growth and profitability.
A link to Retail Maven's comprehensive explanation of Omni-Channel.
Macy’s path to Omni-Channel marketing and related strategies.
What Omni-Channel at Macy’s signifies for the investor.
Macy's, the perfect model for the evaluation of Omni-Channel effectiveness.
Macy's (NYSE:M) has stepped beyond traditional methods of retailing to entrust its future to a new form of retailing, Omni-Channel Marketing, commonly known as Omni-Channel. Macy's is the ideal subject, because of its early entry and deep experience, to evaluate whether its Omni-Channel participation produces a useful strategy for enhancing organizational efficiency and profitability among retailers.
Omni-Channel is the coordinated use of many communication channels to assist a retailer with sales promotion and customer communication. It expands the store's use of communication channels with many subtleties that alter its customers' mindset about what and where they should purchase merchandise.
A helpful lesson about Omni-Channel Marketing and its predecessor Multi-Channel may be found in my commentary, "Introduction to Omni-Channel, its history and applications."
The path to Omni-Channel adoption at Macy's
The Omni-Channel journey began at Macy's at the end of 2008, when Macy's envisioned many new, productive ways to develop long-lasting relationships with its customers. Macy's hoped that these relationships would increase customer loyalty, sales volume and organizational profits. It chose Omni-Channel to achieve innovative ways to enhance its business.
Five years later, it is realizing the rewards of its multi-year efforts. When it began using this new merchandising technology, it only had a limited idea about Omni-Channel. Karen Hoguet, Macy's chief financial officer, recently offered this statement:
"We are working to provide our customers with seamless experiences, no matter how they choose to shop with us, and to utilize the strengths of each channel to satisfy demand and service customers' needs better than we could if we did not operate multiple channels."
Macy's M.O.M. merchandising strategy is based on Omni-Channel
The prime track of Macy's three branched strategy is known as M.O.M: My Macy's, Omni-Channel and MAGIC Selling. It has expanded the Omni-Channel concept to include My Macy's and Magic Selling, along with other related technologies. A careful examination of My Macy's and Magic Selling shows that they are essentially extensions of Omni-Channel methods.
▪ My Macy's offers shoppers the ability to predetermine what is available at their local store. Management claims "It is our sustainable competitive advantage. No one has copied it. No one is likely to copy it because of the investment required in infrastructure, systems and talent."
▪ Omni-Channel in operation at Macy's is the foundation of M.O.M. According to Macy's management:
"Omni-Channel is our formula for localization - in merchandising, in marketing and in the shopping experience. Even after our three consecutive years of phenomenal success in bringing localization to life, no other retailer has anything like My Macy's."
▪ MAGIC Selling is a training program for sales associates. It teaches how the associate should approach customers. It suggests: "Ask questions and listen, give options; give advice; inspire to buy and celebrate the purchase."
Macy's has evaluated shopping behavior both store-wide and on an individual customer basis to improve the shopping experience. It has evaluated customer behavior, based on merchandise returns and customer complaints, to gain information to be used in the training of its sales associates.
Omni-Channel has enabled, at a quarter of Macy's stores, the anticipation of inventory needs leading to the automatic transfer of inventory. This effort has been tied in with fulfilling online orders. It represents a seamless joining of internet and physical store collaboration.
Personal buying habits have been used to create brands that are pointed at demographic and age groups. Macy's introduced a dozen new brands like Fatal Clothing, Truth and Dare by Madonna, Ambig Mens, Fatal Clothing with tattoo-influenced designs, and enhanced the revitalization of another dozen brands.
Macy's has succeeded in implementing many of the key aspects of Omni-Channel, using data from customer purchases to direct communication to its customers.
Skeptics say that Omni-Channel is not the solution to developing advanced retailing systems. They claim that merchandise selection is the solution. These critics miss the real reason that Omni-Channel is increasingly effective, and will become more so with time. It is that Omni-Channel is integrally associated with merchandise to develop a relationship between what a retailer sells and what a purchaser buys.
The effect of Omni-Channel on Macy's efficiency and profitability
Adding to an increase of 4.6% sales for the year 2010, Macy's overall sales grew 5.5 percent to $26.5 billion in 2011. During 2012, sales grew another 4.9%; and in 2013 Macy's, though faltering with a sales increase of .9%, bettered its net income, growing 2012 income from $2.52 billion to $2.68 billion, an increase of 6.1%.
According to Macy's 2012-10K: "Today, we consider ourselves to be America's Omni-Channel Store." It is making certain that it retains this position by increasing Omni-Channel activity. Macy's may well continue its growth through the next decade. If it achieves a compound growth rate of 6%, it will reach $53 billion in sales by the year 2025. Increased sales by Macy's, accompanied by the additional loss to the traditional retail industry because of increasing sales by Internet retailers, will leave little growth for other retailers in Macy's class, strengthening its finances.
Macy's pays a dividend of 1.75% based on a present stock price of $53, and has been recently aggressive in stock repurchasing (in 2012, it repurchased 9.3 million shares, 2.4% of its outstanding stock issue). Continuing growth, combined with a moderate dividend and a repurchase program, makes Macy's an attractive long-term investment.
Further, Macy's believes that it has "benefited from unwavering commitment" to the Omni-Channel concept, which it has used intensely since May 2012.
Why an investor should consider the impact of Omni-Channel on Macy's
It is reasonable to attribute much of Macy's recent success to Omni-Channel because it was developed using organizational results as a guide to the new technologies' effectiveness.
The year 2014 will be the test of Omni-Channel at Macy's, which has expended large resource amounts to revise its operations, thereby suppressing profits and depreciating other assets from its P&L statements for years to come. This gives us cause to believe that the year 2014 will show exemplary financial results.
Most retailers cannot match Macy's spectrum of Omni-Channel initiatives because they have not created the multi-year master plan needed to achieve it. Many retailers have not allotted the investment required to create accurate, real-time views of inventory, order management, supply chain. The extensive preparation, long time span and difficulty of entering Omni-Channel by Macy's competitors will prevent their catching up. Macy's should then be at the forefront of retail business growth.
Continued expansion of traditional retailers into Internet markets is occurring. Because of the fundamental differences in traditional and Internet retailers such as Macy's, it may never approach the level of Internet success that specialty retailers achieve. This deficiency is caused by traditional retailers' need for relatively higher margins and to limit the discounts they offer on the Internet, in order not to compete with themselves.
Macy's expansion into the alternative strategies suggested by Omni-Channel might give them an additional competitive advantage compared to retailers that apply their full development resources into e-commerce-only operations.
Macy's provides an attractive investment because of its recent growth. Its adoption of Omni-Channel seems to support this growth process. The history of its adoption of new technologies has been positive. The danger has been that competitors have adopted these technologies and surpassed the innovators. With Macy's adoption of Omni-Channel, its extensive lead and enormous effort toward implementation precludes losing its advantage.
Macy's is a good choice for present investment and offers much hope for future gains, because it has placed its organization at the forefront of new and effective merchandising technology.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140514
SYMBOL = CSCO
Cisco reported quarterly results and guidance that handily beat analyst estimates, sending shares up 7% after-hours.
Growth from new units like security are offsetting declines in Cisco's legacy businesses while strong growth in developed markets is negating weakness from emerging markets.
With $30 billion in net cash, Cisco can afford its aggressive capital returns and should trade close to $30.
It would be fair to say long-term Cisco (NASDAQ:CSCO) shareholders have had a difficult time. Shares are basically flat over the past decade and are 14% below their 52-week high while major indices have been hitting new all-time highs. Over the past few quarters, Cisco has been reporting revenue declines and margin compression as legacy businesses face commoditization thanks to competition from new cloud-based offerings. To offset this decline, Cisco has been investing in security and cloud-based solutions, but this effort has yet to translate to positive results. However on Wednesday afternoon, Cisco reported solid quarterly results and offered decent guidance. This quarter is further evidence that Cisco is not in a death spiral, but is in fact stabilizing with the potential for modest growth in 2015.
In the company's third fiscal quarter of 2014, Cisco earned $0.51 on revenue of $11.54 billion while analysts were looking for $0.48 on sales of $11.38 billion (all financial and operating data available here). This solid beat helped to push shares up 7% after-hours. Now, it should be noted that the revenue was still down 5.6% year over year. While revenue was better than anticipated, we are not yet seeing growth, though individual units are showing pockets of strength. Importantly, we will see more progress on the revenue front next quarter as the company expects revenue down 1-3% year over year while most analysts were looking for a 5-5.5% drop. Thanks to stronger revenue, EPS should be $0.51-$0.53, compared to the $0.51 consensus. Cisco is sequentially improving its revenue picture, and there is a decent chance the company posts modest revenue growth in 2015.
Importantly, Cisco isn't sacrificing gross margins by discounting to secure higher revenue. Gross margins were a really solid 62.7% in the quarter, which was up 140bp from last quarter. The only blemish from guidance was for a sequential GM contraction to 61-62%. However, it is worth noting that CSCO previously guided to 61-62% for this quarter and easily exceeded this range. This may be a case where Cisco is offering somewhat conservative guidance to provide some margin for error. The sequential improvement in gross margins was positive and shows Cisco is maintaining more pricing power than the bears had argued.
Now, there are definitely still some problems in Cisco's legacy businesses. Product revenue is driving the problems at Cisco and was down 8% year over year. On the other hand, services continue to provide some growth with sales up 2.6% compared to last year. On the positive side, product orders were flat year over year. Cisco is booking more revenue than it is billing, which is contributing to the sequential improvement predicted next quarter. Orders are a leading indicator for revenue, and strong orders confirm the stabilization at Cisco. Set-top boxes remain the weak link at Cisco with sales dropping 26%. Cisco is diversifying away from this business, which is wise as increasing competition cannibalizes profits. With slowing demand, set-top boxes are a commoditized business, and I don't foresee any growth coming from this unit.
Date center revenue jumped 29%, powered in part by market share gains. Thanks to Sourcefire, Cisco continues to perform especially well on the security front with revenue up 10%. Importantly, orders were up 20%, so I expect revenue growth to accelerate from this unit. Router revenue was down 10%, while switch sales fell 6%. However, orders were better, which should lead to some sequential improvement. Wireless revenue was up a disappointing 3%, but the timing of orders distorted results, as orders were up a more robust 12%. Its Meraki unit continues to headline this growth. Cisco's growth units and push into the "internet of things" is helping to create some growth and offset the decline in legacy units.
Geographically, Cisco, like many US tech firms, is performing better in developed markets than emerging ones. US orders were up 7% while Northern Europe was up 4%. The United Kingdom's economy has been performing better of late, helping to push orders up 7%. Government austerity continues to weigh on Cisco, though, with US commercial orders up over 10%. On the other hand, the slowdown in emerging markets coupled with concerns over NSA spying led to a 7% decline in emerging market orders. With China focusing on using domestic tech companies, the decline was worse in BRIC + Mexico, with orders dropping over 13%. While developing markets are performing well, I expect emerging markets to remain a headwind for the rest of calendar 2014.
Finally, Cisco is using its fortress balance sheet to return some capital to shareholders. Earlier this year, it raised its dividend to $0.19, which gives shares a 3.3% yield. This dividend costs the company about $1 billion per quarter. Cisco also bought back $2 billion in stocks, or about 90 million shares. This was down from the $4 billion last quarter when Cisco took advantage to the very low price to aggressively buy back stock. Thanks to the buyback, the diluted share count is down by 200 million, or nearly 4% year over year. Cisco has about $10 billion remaining on its buyback authorization, and I expect the company to exhaust this program over the next 12 months.
Cisco has the balance sheet to do this. The company carries $50.5 billion in gross cash. Much of this cash is trapped overseas, so Cisco has been borrowing in the US to fund the share repurchases. As a consequence, the company carries $20.9 billion in total debt for a net cash position of $29.6 billion. This cash hoard comes to about $5.70 per share. With a strong balance sheet and solid free cash flow ($2.8 billion in the quarter), Cisco will continue to aggressively return capital to shareholders, resulting in higher dividends and earnings per share.
This quarter showed that Cisco is stabilizing and is not in a death spiral. Revenue declines are sequentially improving, and orders suggest this trend will continue. Cisco's growth businesses are also showing some growth, offsetting declines in the legacy business. With its strong balance sheet, capital returns will continue. Cisco will earn about $2.02 in fiscal 2014 and at least $2.10-$2.15 in fiscal 2015. On an ex-cash basis, Cisco should trade 10-12x 2015 earnings, as results are improving but not perfect. That suggests fair value is $26.50-$30. Even after the 7% after-hour rally, Cisco is definitely a buy.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20150120
SYMBOL = MON
On Jan 16, 2015, we issued an updated research report on premium agro-chemical firm Monsanto Company (MON). The company, along with its subsidiaries, is a leading global provider of agricultural products. Despite several scopes for improvement, Monsanto is currently facing certain major headwinds in business.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2015, Monsanto’s adjusted earnings surpassed the Zacks Consensus Estimate by 38.2% and it aims to double its current earnings by 2019. Following an innovation-based growth strategy, the company aims to lower input costs and increase crop yields with new product and process technologies.
Moreover, the recent drop in oil prices has generated positive externalities for numerous agricultural stocks. Lower oil prices are expected to reduce the expenses of agricultural product marketing and eventually, lower the market prices of food items. Under such circumstances, agricultural companies such as Monsanto would experience greater demand for its products and hence, generate higher revenues and earnings in the upcoming quarters.
Monsanto intends to capitalize on the growing demand for corn and soy over the next five years. The company’s core businesses are expected to contribute more than $4 billion to its gross profit by fiscal 2019. Prominent economies such as Brazil, U.S., Europe and Argentina are projected to become prospective trading hubs of the company.
Higher costs and expenses can be detrimental to Monsanto’s profitability. For fiscal 2015, investments in new platforms and higher debt levels will increase operating expenses and interest costs of the company.
In addition, the company’s international operations expose it to foreign currency fluctuation risks. Also, foreign operational hazards, including changes in local, political or economic conditions, governmental policies and pricing directives, as well as import and trade restrictions in foreign economies, will add to the peril.
In addition, the global market for Seeds and Genomics is cluttered with numerous agrochemical and seed marketers. As a result, Monsanto faces stiff competition in this segment, particularly from row crops and vegetable seeds. Such breakneck competition has been forcing the company to come up with high-yielding varieties over time. Moreover, the company’s third-party dependence for seed supply may cause operational uncertainties.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20150204
SYMBOL = ALL
Allstate Corp, the largest publicly traded home and auto insurer in the United States, reported a higher-than-expected quarterly profit as it earned more premiums, and the company said it would buy back $3 billion in shares.
Allstate's shares, however, fell 2.5 percent in extended trading after the company said claim frequency for auto insurances rose in the fourth quarter ended Dec. 31. The stock hit an all-time high in regular trading on Wednesday.
Allstate's underlying, or adjusted, combined ratio fell by 2 percentage points to 89.5 during the quarter.
Combined ratio is an indicator of the total claims and expenses incurred as a percentage of premiums earned. A combined ratio over 100 indicates that an insurer has an underwriting loss.
"Although Allstate had an ok quarter, investors' focus will be on management's discussion on change in claim frequency," Macquarie Securities analyst Amit Kumar said.
The company maintained its underlying combined ratio outlook of 87-89 percent for 2015.
On an operating basis, Allstate reported fourth-quarter earnings of $1.72 per share, beating analysts' average estimate of $1.68 per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
The insurer has raised insurance premiums aggressively in the last few years without any significant loss to its share of the highly competitive home and auto insurance markets.
Property-liability premiums earned during the quarter rose 4.8 percent to $7.35 billion, while property-liability insurance claims rose about 7.8 percent to $4.62 billion.
Catastrophe losses decreased about 18.8 percent to $95 million.
Property and casualty insurers' ability to raise premiums has slowed, mainly due to a lack of major catastrophe losses in recent times.
Allstate also increased its quarterly dividend by 7 percent to 30 cents per share.
Rival Travelers Companies Inc reported better-than-expected results last week, partly helped by lower claims.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20150203
SYMBOL = YGE
Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. rose the most in six weeks as solar companies led gains among Chinese equities in New York for a second day as rebounding oil prices boosted demand for alternative energy stocks.
China’s largest solar-panel producer gained 7.8 percent to $2.08. JinkoSolar Holding Co. jumped 12 percent. It was the best performer in the Bloomberg China-US Equity Index, which advanced 1.6 percent. Trina Solar Ltd. climbed 10 percent to a two-month high.
The stocks rallied as oil rose for a fourth day, entering a bull market amid speculation producers will scale back production, helping ease a supply glut. The 30-day correlation between crude futures and the Bloomberg Global Large Solar Index rose to 0.6, the highest level since 2012. A reading of 1 indicates the two move in lockstep.
Rising oil prices are “an extremely positive tailwind to the solar group, as solar stocks have been highly correlated to oil,” David Smith, a portfolio manager at Greentech Capital Advisors in New York, said by e-mail.
Canadian Solar Inc.’s $265 million purchase of Recurrent Energy LLC, Sharp Corp.’s San Francisco-based project development unit, also boosted the outlook for Chinese solar companies as it signals they are more likely to acquire U.S. developers, Smith said. The Ontario-based company, which has most of its operations in China, said it made the purchase to take advantage of the large pipeline of projects under development across North America.
Canadian Solar surged 25 percent to $26.69 in New York, the biggest rally in three years.
JinkoSolar advanced to $20.92 in the steepest gain since March. Trina climbed to $10.52. ReneSola Ltd. rallied 9.5 percent to $1.38.
The Deutsche X-trackers Harvest CSI 300 China A-Shares ETF, the largest U.S. exchange-traded fund that tracks mainland Chinese stocks, added 3.9 percent to $35.93. The iShares China Large-Cap ETF, the largest Chinese ETF in the U.S. tracking Hong Kong shares, rose 2 percent to $42.79.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20150108
SYMBOL = JNJ
Johnson & Johnson is a truly amazing business. The company has increased its adjusted-earnings-per-share for 30 consecutive years. To have that level of earnings stability is virtually unheard of for any business. Additionally, the company has 52 consecutive years of dividend increases. Johnson & Johnson currently has a price-to-earnings ratio of 17.2 and a dividend yield of 2.7%.
Decades of success has grown Johnson & Johnson to enormous heights. The company 's $290 billion market cap makes it the largest health care corporation in the world and seventh largest publicly traded corporation in the U.S. Johnson & Johnson splits its operations into three separate segments that could each easily be stand alone businesses: consumer, pharmaceutical and medical devices and diagnostics. The company's consumer segment generates about $14 billion a year in revenue; the pharmaceutical segment generates about $32 billion in revenue a year; and the medical devices and diagnostics segment generates about $27 billion a year in revenue.
Johnson & Johnson controls some of the most well known health brands including: Neosporin, Listerine, Tylenol, Visine, Pepcid, and Motrin. Johnson & Johnson's growth is being propelled by favorable macroeconomic tailwinds. The company is benefiting from rising health care spending, which is far outpacing GDP growth in most developed nations. Health care spending is on the rise in the developing world as well. Johnson & Johnson will likely continue to grow its earnings and dividends as global populations and demand for healthcare rise.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20150108
SYMBOL = PG
Procter & Gamble is a diversified consumer goods corporation. The company has paid dividends for 124 consecutive years, and increasing dividends for 58 consecutive years. The company serves about 4.8 billion people around the world through its many well-known brands including: Bounty, Charmin, Crest, Dawn, Gillette, Head & Shoulders, Oral-B, and many more.
The company's stock currently has a price-to-earnings ratio of 25.4 and a dividend yield of 2.86%. Procter & Gamble's strong brands have grown it to a market cap of $243 billion which is good for the thirteenth largest publicly traded corporation in U.S. markets.
Procter & Gamble is currently restructuring its operations. The company is divesting itself of less profitable or slow-growth brands and focusing on its core brands that have driven results over the last several years. To this end, Procter & Gamble is selling its Duracell brand to Berkshire Hathaway. Streamlining operations should increase Procter & Gamble's profit margins and reward shareholders with increases earnings-per-share and growing dividend payments.
Having less brands will give the company more advertising spending on each brand. Procter & Gamble spent $9 billion on advertising in its last fiscal year. Going forward, expect Procter & Gamble's growth to be driven by rising global populations and a more streamlined operations with fewer brands but better focus on each particular brand.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20141219
SYMBOL = APC
Point72 Asset Management increased its positions in Tyson Foods, Inc. (TSN), Canadian Natural Resources (CNQ), and Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC). The fund reduced its stake in Whiting Petroleum Corp. (WLL) and Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI).
Point72 increased its stake in Anadarko Petroleum Corp. in the third quarter. The position accounts for 0.96% of the total portfolio—up from 0.17% of the fund’s 2Q14 portfolio.
APC explores and produces oil and natural gas.
On November 11, the federal court approved APC’s agreement to pay $5.15 billion to clean up nuclear fuel and other pollution. It’s the largest environmental cleanup recovery in the US.
On October 28, Western Gas Partners, LP (WES) agreed to acquire privately-held Nuevo Midstream, LLC for $1.5 billion. WES is a growth-oriented MLP in Delaware. It was formed by APC. It owns, operates, acquires, and develops midstream energy assets. The transaction is expected to close by the end of the year.
APC posted revenue of $5.01 billion. Diluted net income attributable to common stockholders was $1.08 billion, or $2.12 per share—compared to $182 million, or $0.36 per share in 3Q13.
APC’s crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids’, or NGLs, sales volumes reached a record 78 million barrels of oil equivalent. This was an average of 849,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. It grew 35% year-over-year, or YoY—or by 110,000 barrels per day, or bpd, on a divestiture-adjusted basis. The overall product mix was up to 51% liquids in 3Q14—compared to 43% in 3Q13.
APC’s strong sales volumes were mainly driven by performance in the Wattenberg Gas Field, Eagle Ford Shale, and Wolfcamp Shale.
The Wattenberg Gas Field continued to benefit from its significant commitment to midstream expansions. Oil volumes doubled on a YoY basis—or 88,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. Oil volumes reached 189,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day due to Wattenberg’s horizontal program.
In the Wolfcamp Shale, APC expanded the “high-confidence area” within its 600,000 gross-acre position.
It closed ~$1.2 billion of additional asset monetizations to accelerate and enhance value for its stakeholders.
On November 6, APC declared a quarterly dividend of $0.27 per share.
APC increased its 2014 full-year expectations for sales volume. This was the third increase this year. It expects the sales volume will reach 304–306 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
APC reports that “It continued to advance multiple mega projects. In the Gulf of Mexico, the Lucius project is on schedule with first oil expected in near future. Construction on the Heidelberg spar hull was completed, and the project remains on schedule for first oil in 2016. In Mozambique, the Parliament passed enabling legislation during its last session of the year.”
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20150128
SYMBOL = LVS
Macau couldn't bring the Las Vegas Sands' spirits down. As the Asian gambling hotspot cools off amid a government corruption crackdown that scared off VIP gamblers and efforts to make the destination's casinos smoke-free, the casino empire's executives assured analysts Wednesday that tales of Macau's demise are unfounded.
"The new Macau is a little different than the old Macau, but still a wonderful Macau," said Robert Goldstein, Las Vegas Sands president and chief operating officer during the call.
Las Vegas Sands reported higher fourth-quarter net income of $721.3 million and annual profit of $2.84 billion.
The last four months had been unsettling, but the company's leaders presented a confident voice Wednesday.
"We believe very much in this market," Goldstein said, calling it the best gambling environment in the world. The company owns and operates The Venetian and The Palazzo resorts on the Las Vegas Strip, the Sands Bethlehem in Pennsylvania and several properties in Asia where it derives the bulk of its revenue.
Executives made much of the company's non-gambling offerings, but of its fourth-quarter and annual revenue, casino games accounted for 80 percent and 82 percent, respectively.
Sheldon Adelson, the founder, chairman and CEO of Las Vegas Sands, rattled off his casino empire's fourth-quarter and annual performance in Asia — highlighting EBIDTA that doubled at its Marina Bay Sands in Singapore — and twice asking rhetorically if he had heard someone say things were looking down in the Asian gambling market.
He pointed to the company's focus on offerings outside of the slot machines and casino floor, including a 15,000-seat arena for rotating performances, hotel room sales, shopping and the convention and meeting business.
On a per-share basis, the Las Vegas-based company earned 90 cents. Earnings adjusted for non-recurring costs came to 92 cents per share. The results topped Wall Street expectations. The average estimate of analysts surveyed by Zacks Investment Research was for earnings of 81 cents per share.
The casino operator posted revenue of $3.42 billion in the period, which fell short of Street forecasts. Analysts expected $3.55 billion, according to Zacks.
For the year, the company earned $2.84 billion, or $3.52 per share. Revenue rose to $14.58 billion.
In Las Vegas, The Venetian and The Palazzo resorts saw its casino, hotel room and restaurant revenue drop in the fourth quarter leading to EBIDTA — or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization — of $78 million versus $88 million a year ago. Its Sands Bethlehem property in Pennsylvania, though, had a positive fourth quarter in every category.
Las Vegas Sands shares rose 3.8 percent to $58.12 in after-hours trading following the release of the report.
Asked by an analyst about his decision to assume the title of CEO at Sands China Ltd., too, versus strengthening the corporate mantle of executives, Adelson said to laughter, "Listen, I haven't done too bad."
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20141223
SYMBOL = NQ
When all else fails, try a share buyback. That seems to be the latest plan from Chinese mobile Internet services provider NQ Mobile Inc. (NYSE: NQ). The company said Tuesday morning that it will repurchase $80 million of its own shares over the next 12 months. The purchases may be open market, privately negotiated, block trades or other “legally permissible means.”
The company said it plans to fund the buybacks with existing cash. According to the company’s most recent quarterly report, NQ Mobile had approximately $174 million in cash on the last day of September. The weighted average number of shares outstanding topped 450 million at the end of the third quarter, up from about 285 million at the end of September 2013. One American depositary share (ADS) is equal to five ordinary shares. The $80 million is not going to sop up many shares, even at the current price.
Shares hit an all-time high of around $25.50 in mid-October 2013, before short seller Muddy Waters issued a report saying it was starting coverage of NQ Mobile with a Sell rating and a price target of zero. Shares hit a low of around $8.50 before bouncing back to more than $22 in March of this year. Since then it has been pretty much straight downhill to a 52-week low of $3.45 posted on Monday.
NQ had to do something to stop the bleeding and that something is a buyback. Apparently it is working — shares have risen as much as 25% on Tuesday.
Board members and executives have departed, including a former chair of the audit committee and a former chief financial officer. A co-founder and former co-CEO left earlier this month, and the company has sold its mobile game unit.
In late October NQ Mobile turned down a buyout offer for $9.80 per ADS from Bison Capital, although there is chatter that discussions are ongoing. Is there an NQ Mobile investor out there who wouldn’t take that offer today — or wishes that it had been accepted in October?
Whatever. NQ Mobile’s stock traded at $4.26 in the noon hour Tuesday, in a 52-week range of $3.45 to $22.33.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20150211
SYMBOL = MYGN
Shares of Myriad Genetics Inc. (NASDAQ: MYGN) traded down as much as 16% Wednesday morning following a late Tuesday announcement that the company’s president and CEO is retiring and that the company is lowering its fiscal-year guidance. The last time the stock fell this much was when the company lost a 9-0 decision in the U.S. Supreme Court in June of 2013 that denied Myriad’s claim to patent human genes isolated from a person’s body.
The stock posted a five-year high of $42.505 in March of last year, but it has since drifted to its close at around $38 on Tuesday and below $32 early Wednesday. The company had to change direction following the Supreme Court ruling and has tried to expand its offerings of molecular diagnostics. That worked to some degree, but the company has had difficulty in collecting payments for some of its diagnostics treatments and that lead to the cut to its guidance.
Insurance company reimbursements have been slow for its test for rheumatoid arthritis and Medicare is not scheduled to begin paying for Myriad’s prostate cancer test until late June, the month that the company’s current fiscal year ends.
Earnings per share guidance was cut from a range of $1.90 to $2.00 to a new range of $1.50 to $1.55 for the current fiscal year, and revenue guidance was cut from a range of $800 million to $820 million to a new range of $730 million to $740 million.
The company’s retiring CEO said that he believes the reimbursement issues are “transient in nature” and will have “minimal impact on our long-term financial outlook.”
Shares traded at around $34.15 in the late morning on Wednesday, down more than 10%, in a 52-week range of $29.10 to $42.50. The consensus price target on the stock is about $39.00.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20150120
SYMBOL = DWA
DreamWorks Animation SKG, the upstart studio that once rivaled Walt Disney Studios in mining box-office gold from animated features, is embarking on a fresh round of layoffs following a string of disappointing releases.
DreamWorks is looking to shave as many as 400 jobs, or about 20% of its California workforce, under plans still being finalized, according to people familiar with the matter who were unauthorized to discuss them. The layoffs would be the second major downsizing in two years at the studio, which cut 350 jobs in 2013, and currently employs about 2,200 workers in California.
The reductions mark a retreat from ambitious growth plans under the leadership of co-founder Jeffrey Katzenberg, who transformed DreamWorks from a fledgling studio into a $700-million-a-year multimedia powerhouse.
But unlike rival studios, DreamWorks is mostly dependent on feature animation — and that has made the lack of hits especially troublesome, analysts say.
The studio took a $57-million write-down last year for its animated feature "Mr. Peabody & Sherman" and a $13.5-million charge on its summer movie "Turbo." Those followed an $87-million write-down for the 2012 "Rise of the Guardians" holiday movie.
"The reason they are struggling is their business model, for better or worse, is built around each picture performing and if a picture doesn't perform they have to look at staffing and ways to cut," said Steve Hulett, business representative for the Animation Guild, which represents about 800 unionized workers at DreamWorks.
That's one reason why Katzenberg has been actively shopping the studio. Last year, he ramped up efforts to find buyers, but his efforts were rebuffed by Japanese telecommunications giant SoftBank, Rupert Murdoch's 21st Century Fox and toy maker Hasbro. The company's share price has plunged 36% over the last year.
At the same time, DreamWorks is facing tougher competition from its longtime rival, Walt Disney Co., as well as other studios that have bankrolled hit animated features.
Under the leadership of John Lasseter, Disney has continued to churn out hits in its Pixar unit and has reinvigorated its traditional animation division. Disney's 2013 film "Frozen" pulled in nearly $1.3 billion in ticket sales, making it the highest grossing animated movie of all time. Disney scored another hit with the recent release "Big Hero 6," which has generated over $428 million in worldwide ticket sales.
Universal Pictures has proven a formidable rival with its "Despicable Me" franchise — which will have a "Minions" spinoff this summer — and Warner Bros. scored a surprise hit with "The Lego Movie" last year.
The pending layoffs at DreamWorks were preceded by the departure this month of longtime executive Bill Damaschke, the studio's chief creative officer. Veteran producers Bonnie Arnold and Mireille Soria have taken over as co-presidents of feature animation.
The new executive team has been reevaluating the studio's upcoming film slate and process for developing animated movies. As part of the restructuring, the studio is expected to scale back its production. DreamWorks has been releasing about three animated movies a year.
The layoffs will be phased in across multiple departments, and will include animators, story board artists, and other production and support staff. Some employees have already been notified.
A spokesman for DreamWorks Animation declined to comment.
DreamWorks Animation has been pressured by Wall Street to reduce costs after a series of box-office flops that have eroded profits and spooked investors. The company's share price closed at $22.16 on Friday. Markets were closed Monday for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday.
Much of the scrutiny has fallen on Katzenberg, 64, who was hailed as a visionary when he launched the company after helping to revive Disney's vaunted animation studio in the 1980s and 1990s. The studio chief was behind such hits as "The Lion King" and "The Little Mermaid."
After a highly public feud with his former boss Michael Eisner, Katzenberg formed DreamWorks with partner director Steven Spielberg and music mogul David Geffen.
The animation studio, which was spun off into a separate company in 2004, churned out such big hits as the "Shrek," "Kung Fu Panda" and "Madagascar" movies. DreamWorks spared no expense to build a lavish Tuscany-style campus in Glendale, poaching animators from Disney.
After some initial struggles in the studio's early years, DreamWorks scored big with a string of computer animated movies, often outperforming Disney at the box office. But DreamWorks has struggled to replicate that success and has lost some of its swagger.
Although last summer's movie "How to Train Your Dragon 2" garnered an Oscar nomination, the more recent "Penguins of Madagascar" didn't perform as well as expected. Some analysts expect DreamWorks will take a write-down on that film as well.
DreamWorks also has decided to push back the release date for "B.O.O.: Bureau of Other Worldly Operations," originally set for June. Katzenberg was said to be unhappy with the progress of the film and the expected competition in June, when Pixar plans to release its anticipated movie "Inside Out."
Compounding matters for DreamWorks, big-budget action films such as "Captain America" are also competing for the same family audience. And once reliable DVD sales can no longer be counted on to drive profits as consumers watch more movies on Netflix and other streaming services.
In a conference call with analysts last summer, Katzenberg said the studio was evaluating its creative process so that movies with the broadest appeal would be selected. He also said the studio would be more strategic about release dates. Average movie budgets will be lowered to at least $125 million from about $145 million, he said.
"We have been inconsistent," Katzenberg told The Times last year. "The only thing I can guarantee you is we are our harshest critics."
Katzenberg also been attempting to diversify its operations in television, theme parks and other areas to lessen its reliance on making animated feature films.
For instance, DreamWorks has licensed some of its well-known characters for theme parks in Russia and New Jersey. The studio is also partnering on a project to design educational computer tablets for kids, and in February launched a publishing division called DreamWorks Press.
DreamWorks in 2013 signed a landmark agreement with Netflix to produce 300 hours of animation programming. Previously, the studio had produced only TV specials and series for Cartoon Network and Nickelodeon. Last month, the company announced plans to launch a kids and family television channel in Asia.
The studio is also tapping into new entertainment platforms by deepening ties with YouTube. DreamWorks acquired YouTube teen network Awesomeness TV for $33 million in 2013, and in January of last year partnered with YouTube to produce a series of daily shows called "YouTube Nation."
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20141130
SYMBOL = DWA
Dreamworks Animation's latest film, "Penguins of Madagascar," opened below expectations over the Thanksgiving weekend.
The film, which was distributed by Twenty-First Century Fox's Fox studio, generated $36 million in ticket sales over the five-day weekend, according to box office tracking service Rentrak.
Hollywood experts had predicted sales of $47 million, according to the site Box Office Mojo.
Dreamworks recently explored combining with Softbank or Hasbro following its latest flop, "Mr. Peabody & Sherman," earlier this year, its third underperforming film in three years.
"We certainly underperformed our own tracking," said Chris Aronson, Fox's president of domestic distribution, who said the studio forecast ticket sales in the low-$40 million range. "But we have a clear playing field ahead of us until we face the next family film."
On Dec. 19, Sony opens the musical "Annie" and Fox releases "Night at the Museum: Secret of the Tomb," both rated PG.
The weak performance of "Penguins" might be attributed to a weaker than expected Thanksgiving box office, said Aronson, who said the film registered strongly in surveys with younger viewers.
The film could pick up steam in the next few weeks as Disney's animated hit "Big Hero 6" slows, said Rentrak senior media analyst Paul Dergarabedian. Disney's film collected $26 million in its fourth weekend in theaters, said Rentrak.
"Penguins" may also benefit from a strong foreign market for U.S. films, Aronson said on Sunday. The film has totaled $61.8 million overseas so far, according to Rentrak.
Dreamworks recorded a $59.2 million impairment charge earlier this year, primarily the result of a weaker than expected performance by "Mr. Peabody & Sherman," the company said in its financial statements.
It wrote down $86.9 million for "Rise of the Guardians" in 2012 and $13.5 million for "Turbo" last year.
In September Dreamworks unsuccessfully negotiated an acquisition by Japan's Softbank and it briefly discussed a merger with toy company Hasbro in early November, according to press reports.
A Dreamworks spokesman had no comment on "Penguins." Dreamworks previously had refused to comment on the reported takeover discussions.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20150114
SYMBOL = XON
When two stocks run up over 50% and 30% on the same news, investors have to wonder if the move in the stock was justified or if the news-pop was due to trading factors and sentiment. Intrexon Corp. (NYSE: XON) and Ziopharm Oncology Inc. (NASDAQ: ZIOP) announced that they had entered into a broad exclusive licensing agreement with the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center. This includes an exclusive sublicensing agreement through MD Anderson for intellectual property developed at the University of Minnesota for the development of non-viral adoptive cellular cancer immunotherapies.
As per the terms of the agreement, MD Anderson will receive consideration of $100 million — $50 million from each Intrexon and Ziopharm, payable in shares of their respective common stock. This is in conjunction with a commitment of $15 million to $20 million annually over three years for researching and developing the technologies.
Ziopharm is a biotech company that employs novel gene expression and control technology to deliver DNA treatment for cancer. Intrexon is a biotech company that focuses on synthetic biology and collaborates with other companies in health, food, energy, environment and consumer sectors to create biologically-based products.
MD Anderson President Ron DePinho, M.D., said:
Genetically engineering our patients’ immune-system T cells to efficiently attack and destroy cancer cells represents one of the most exciting approaches with curative potential in oncology today. We believe coupling MD Anderson’s unique CAR T cell approach with the powerful technologies of ZIOPHARM and Intrexon will allow us to build T cells that hit cancer harder, with greater precision, under tighter control and with potentially fewer side effects for patients. This agreement ranks as one of MD Anderson’s most substantial collaborations and will provide significant resources to fuel its mission of Making Cancer History.
The press release indicated that the synergy between the platforms will be leveraged to accelerate a promising synthetic immunology pipeline. In fact, what was telegraphed was that up to five CARs are now expected to enter the clinic in 2015 and off-the-shelf programs initiating in 2016. Will that be a full five, or is the “up to” being too generous? With stock gains of 50% and 30%, it is a question that has to be asked.
MD Anderson also talked up the system and platform being added to its moon shot cancers program.
Shares of Intrexon closed Wednesday up 31% at $37.30 on over 5.2 million shares, almost a nine-times volume spike. The stock has a consensus analyst price target of $32.67 and a 52-week trading range of $13.13 to $38.60. Intrexon has a market cap of $3.75 billion, which in Wednesday’s trading alone gained $900 million.
Shares of Ziopharm closed Wednesday up 54.5% at $8.87 on over 38 million shares, nearly a 40-times volume spike. The consensus analyst price target is $7.00, and the 52-week trading range is $2.31 to $9.50. Ziopharm gained almost $320 million in its market cap in Wednesday’s trading, giving a total market cap of $908 million.
Did the short interest play a factor in these massive stock pops? It turns out that short interest may have played a serious role here in these massive volume spikes. For the December 31 settlement date, Ziopharm short interest remained relatively flat at 17.6 million with 18.3 days to cover. Intrexon saw its short interest increase to 13.5 million with 20.6 days to cover. These are massively shorted stocks.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20150116
SYMBOL = FNMA
Investors including US mortgage giant Fannie Mae holding decade-old residential mortgage bonds are fretting over potentially huge losses on securities where delayed foreclosures could lead to complete write-offs on defaulted loans.
Mortgage servicers, whose job is to ensure bondholders receive repayments on loans, have frequently failed to foreclose on delinquent debt in a timely manner, and therefore risk falling foul of legal deadlines which limit the time home-owners can be chased for payment.
"If a foreclosure runs afoul of the statute of limitations, it's a problem," said Bruce Bergman, a partner at Berkman Henoch Peterson Peddy & Fenchel, a New York law firm which represents lenders and loan servicing firms in mortgage foreclosure cases.
"If the court says the mortgage is gone because too much time has passed, it's gone. The loss, if it occurs, is catastrophic because it is complete."
Analysts are struggling to estimate the size of resulting losses in the US$820bn of private label RMBS sold before the financial crisis, and investors are just waking up to how big a problem it could become.
Fannie Mae's general counsel held a conference call just before the Christmas holidays - all of its retained law firms were required to participate - to ask how the government-run mortgage agency could alleviate such losses, a person with knowledge of the call told IFR.
"[Fannie Mae's] general counsel asked: 'How bad is it?'" the person said, adding that one of the lawyers on the call answered: "We can't even begin to tell you - there are so many loans."
A spokesperson for the agency declined to comment.
Alarm is increasing following a number of court cases across the US that have left mortgages voided even though borrowers have not paid a dime in years. 
The statute of limitations varies between states, but in New York it is six years and in Florida five. These two jurisdictions, along with California, have the largest exposure to pre-crash RMBS loans, after some US$375.5bn in mortgages from the boom years were rolled into securities, according to data provider Intex.
Many of those loans hit trouble years ago.
The clock on the statute of limitations starts ticking as soon as a loan has been accelerated for full payment following a default.
Ashish Negandhi, a senior portfolio manager and RMBS investor at Angel Oak Capital Advisors, said: "Common sense says not that many people are going to get away scot-free with no payment."
Negandhi has contacted a number of Wall Street analysts to request data on how many loans could be voided and what that means for outstanding RMBS. He said the work entailed in finding answers was just beginning.
On the Fannie call, lawyers discussed a December court ruling in Florida about a 2006 default on a US$1.44m loan secured on a condominium in Miami Beach, Florida. The ruling upheld a decision that the foreclosure surpassed Florida's statute of limitations deadline. But whether the mortgage is actually "null and void" is still to be decided by a trial court.
That mortgage defaulted just seven months after it was rolled into a Deutsche Bank bond deal from 2006 called AHMS 2006-2. Lenders are watching the case closely to see what options they may have to avoid total losses on other defaulted mortgages.
Time also ran out on a 30-year US$649,000 adjustable-rate mortgage loan on 43 Irving Place in Brooklyn, New York. That loan was rolled into a 2005 CSFB private label RMBS called ARMT 2005-11.
Not only was the mortgage cancelled and cleared from the record - making it unavailable as an income stream for the US$1bn bond deal - the borrower was able to sell the property for US$500,000 after the statute of limitations expired, according to court and property records.
Such problems often stem from poorly originated loans falling into the hands of non-bank mortgage servicers after banks offloaded battered portfolios in the aftermath of the crisis. The US$25bn robo-signing settlement that banks reached with regulators in 2012 hastened such transfers.
Regulators have since lashed out at servicers over their failure to properly handle such soured loans, while oversight by courts in the foreclosure process has become stricter.
Some servicers, unable to manage the volume of loans, have let defaults slip through the cracks. As a result, some trusts will be left empty-handed on collateral which was meant to pay off RMBS deals.
Finding accurate data on the loans, and exactly when the statute of limitations kicks in, is proving problematic.
Investors can comb through outstanding legacy RMBS mortgages coded as "in foreclosure" state by state, but in New York alone such loans stand at roughly US$14bn, according to Intex. And even that figure provides an incomplete picture because not all of what goes on with a loan is reported to investors as it happens.
To get proper detail, it is often necessary to sift through local court dockets to learn about specific properties in foreclosure, when loans have been accelerated and how much time is left before the statute of limitations expires.
"Usually, it is hard to find when the loan was actually accelerated," said David Berg, a founding partner of Berg & David, a Brooklyn-based law firm that worked on the New York mortgage case.
"Sometimes there is a letter sent home to the borrower. But other times the bank just takes action in court, and sometimes the borrower doesn't even know it."
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20150113
SYMBOL = AA
Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer, sees world demand growing 7 percent this year as automakers use more of the lightweight metal and orders from the aerospace industry accelerate.
Demand for commercial and regional jets will help boost global aerospace sales as much as 10 percent, the New York-based company said yesterday as it reported fourth-quarter earnings and revenue that beat analysts’ estimates. It also predicted U.S. auto sales will rise 5.8 percent in 2015. Alcoa shares rose.
Consumption exceeds output in Europe and the Americas, helping support prices despite a projected surplus in China, said Brian Yu, a San Francisco-based analyst at Citigroup Inc. “You’ve got healthy demand trends,” Yu said in an interview.
Demand for the metal is picking up in the auto industry as manufacturers focus on saving weight to boost fuel efficiency, with Ford Motor Co. introducing its all-aluminum F-150 pickup in November. Despite the slump in energy prices in recent months, that trend will continue, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Klaus Kleinfeld said yesterday on a conference call with analysts. Automakers “need it and the consumers like it,” he said.
Alcoa, the first company in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to publish earnings for the quarter, had net income of 11 cents a share, compared with a loss of $2.19 a year earlier. Profit excluding one-time items was 33 cents a share, exceeding the 27-cent average of 19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales rose 14 percent to $6.38 billion, compared with the $6.05 billion average estimate.
The company also benefited from higher prices for aluminum and alumina, a stronger dollar, and shipped a record volume of automotive aluminum sheet.
The earnings were published after the close of trading in New York yesterday. The shares fell 1.2 percent to $15.97 at 11:15 a.m. today. They have advanced 58 percent over the past 12 months while the S&P 500 has climbed 13 percent.
Michael Gambardella, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., reduced his price target for Alcoa to $22, from $25.50, and lowered earnings estimates, partly to reflect current aluminum prices. The commodity has declined 2.8 percent on the London Metal Exchange since the start of the year.
Alcoa’s weaker-than-expected forecasts for its downstream operations in the first quarter also weighed on the estimates, Gambardella said in a note.
After-tax operating income for the engineered products unit will increase between zero and 5 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, as foreign exchange pressures continue to weigh on profits, the company said yesterday. At the rolled products division, it will be flat year over year, excluding the effects of metal price and currency changes, Alcoa said.
Alcoa’s rolled products division processes aluminum into spools of the metal to be used by manufacturers of products such as beverage cans, car parts and aircraft components. The engineered products segment uses aluminum and other metals to make forged and extruded products such as fasteners for aircraft and turbine blades used in jet engines and power plants.
Alcoa has in recent years sought to reposition itself as a metals engineering and manufacturing company, while reducing its exposure to the price of aluminum.
Its $2.85 billion acquisition of aerospace supplier Firth Rixon Ltd., Alcoa’s biggest deal in 16 years, helped the company expand into the production of components made from nickel-based superalloys and titanium.
As part of the company’s transition, Alcoa has shut unprofitable aluminum smelters, curtailing or closing 22 percent of its production capacity over the past two years.
Such cuts helped support aluminum prices in the fourth quarter. Alcoa’s third-party realized price averaged $2,578 a metric ton, up 20 percent from a year earlier.
It also enjoyed higher premiums, the surcharge that consumers pay on top of benchmark prices, because of extended waiting times for the delivery of metal out of warehouses. Premiums are expected to remain strong, Chief Financial Officer William Oplinger said on the call.
Despite the projected growth in worldwide demand, output is never far behind. Alcoa predicted 5.1 million tons of new output will be added this year, with 4.4 million tons in China.
While demand exceeds production, the deficit will narrow this year to just 38,000 tons, compared with 948,000 tons in 2014. There was a surplus in 2005 through 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
As well as automotive and aerospace, Alcoa predicted growth in other aluminum end-use markets, with demand rising as much as 7 percent in construction. It also sees gains in gas turbines and in packaging, albeit at slower rates.
Alcoa also estimated that there will be a 2.92 million-ton surplus this year in the market for alumina, the raw material used to smelt aluminum and a commodity that the company also produces. It said the surplus in 2014 was 490,000 tons.
Alcoa doesn’t give price forecasts. Aluminum gained 2.9 percent on the LME last year and was the ninth-best performer on the UBS Bloomberg CMCI Index. Prices may rise this year to an average of $2,057 a ton, according to the median of 23 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Metal for delivery in three months on the LME declined 0.6 percent to $1,799 a ton today.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20141230
SYMBOL = KERX
With the its newly-approved drug for kidney dialysis patients now being shipped and available to be prescribed, Keryx Biopharmaceuticals is poised to take on one of Genzyme's drugs with sales of about $600 million.
In September, the New York City-based drug company, which opened a Boston office earlier this year, saw the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approve its only drug in development, a phosphate binder called Auryxia. The pill is the first absorbable-iron-based drug intended to better control phosphate levels in patients with chronic kidney disease who receive dialysis, which totals about 340,000 patients in the U.S.
That's the same patient population as Genzyme's Renvela, which was approved in 2007 and which brought in $595 million in U.S. sales in 2012, according to FierceBiotech. But Keryx has two advantages over Renvela: One is head-to-head, late-stage trial data showing Auryxia helped increase the patients' stored iron levels better than either Renvela or a generic option called Phoslo. The other is a slightly lower price, according to COO Greg Madison, who said that at $4.21 per tablet, the cost of the drug for the average patient would be $12,300 per year, which is 1-2 percent less than Renvela.
But the approval has come with some obstacles for Keryx. Namely, in the two weeks following the drug's Sept. 5 approval, Keryx shares dropped 28 percent due to the FDA-mandated warning that patients need to be monitored for iron overload while on the drug. Three days after the approval, Keryx CEO Ron Bentsur told MarketWatch that labelling has been "grossly misunderstood and misinterpreted" by investors.
On Monday, COO Greg Madison said he believes the initial misunderstanding has mostly passed now. He said the FDA's requirement was totally expected, since all patients taking phosphate binders who are on kidney dialysis need to have their iron levels monitored anyway, but some investors saw it as a red flag that would decrease sales of the drug.
Keryx (Nasdaq: KERX) now employs about 50 people in its Boston office in the Seaport District, making it larger than the New York headquarters. In total it employs about 160, many of whom are salespeople spread throughout the country, and Madison has said he hopes to build up the local headcount to about 60 or 70 employees.
The company's future growth will depend on the results of a Phase 3 trial that began in September testing Auryxia in all patients with anemia rather than just those on dialysis. If successful, the trial could pave the way for approval in as many as 2 million patients. Results of that trial are expected near the end of 2015, said Madison.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020908:06
SYMBOL = HAS
Hasbro beats on profit, raises dividend
Hasbro Inc. HAS, -0.30% said it had net income of $169.9 million, or $1.34 a share, in the fourth quarter, up from $129.8 million, or 98 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Adjusted net earnings were $1.22 a share, above the FactSet consensus of $1.19. The toys and games maker said revenue rose 1% to $1.30 billion, below the FactSet consensus of $1.329 billion. The company said it is raising its quarterly dividend by 3 cents a share to 46 cents a share, with the first payment to be made on May 15 to shareholders of record as of the close of business May 1. The board has approved a $500 million buyback of its common stock. Shares were not yet active in premarket trade, but are down 3.9% in the last three months, while the S&P 500 has gained 1.2%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020916:17
SYMBOL = GPS
Gap raises full-year profit outlook
Gap Inc. GPS, +3.05% raised its profit outlook for the year, on the heels of better-than-expected fourth-quarter same-store sales growth. The apparel retailer now expects earnings per share for the fiscal year ending in January of $2.86 to $2.87, up from a previous forecast of $2.73 to $2.78. For the fourth quarter, the company expects EPS of 73 cents to 74 cents, above the FactSet consensus analyst estimate of 68 cents. Same-store sales for the quarter rose 2%, above analyst projections of 1% growth, as growth in Banana Republic and Old Navy sales offset a decline at Gap branded stores. For the month of January, total sales fell to $888 million from $899 million a year ago, while same-store sales declined 3%. The stock slipped 0.5% in after-hours trade. Over the past three months, it has gained 5.9% while the S&P 500 has edged up 0.8%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020916:55
SYMBOL = URBN
Urban Outfitters shares climb after January same-store sales increase
Urban Outfitters Inc. URBN, +1.59% shares advanced in the extended session Monday after the specialty retailer reported a rise in January same-store sales. Shares of Urban Outfitters rose 7.6% to $39.30 on moderate activity. The company said January same-store sales increased 6% companywide. Urban Outfitters was expected to post a 3.7% gain, according to Retail Metrics.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020916:17
SYMBOL = ARO
Aeropostale jumps 15% after it cuts loss forecast
Aeropostale Inc. ARO, +3.07% shares jumped 15% in after-hours trading on Monday after the teen retailer narrowed its fourth-quarter loss forecast. The company projected a loss of 1 cent to 6 cents a share, compared to its prior outlook of a loss of 25 cents to 31 cents a share. Aeropostale said the holiday quarter same-store sales fell 9% after a 15% decrease a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by Retail Metrics were looking for an 8.8% decline. Aeropostale said it named Chief Financial Officer Marc Miller as chief operating officer. David Dick, former CFO of now bankrupt teen retailer Delia's, will join as CFO on Feb. 17.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020916:29
SYMBOL = COUP
Coupons.com shares drop after results, outlook disappoint
Shares of Coupons.com Inc. COUP, -1.42% dropped in the extended session Monday after the digital coupon company's quarterly results and outlook fell below Wall Street estimates. Coupons.com plunged 30% to $10.20 on moderate volume. The company reported a fourth-quarter loss of 2 cents a share on revenue of $60 million. Analysts surveyed by FactSet estimated earnings of 4 cents a share on revenue of $63.4 million. For the coming year, Coupons.com forecast revenue of $275 million to $290 million. Analysts had estimated $295.9 million.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020908:42
SYMBOL = LUV
Southwest's stock falls as traffic fails to keep pace with capacity
Shares of Southwest Airlines LUV, +0.20% dropped 1.5% in premarket trade, after the air carrier said capacity increased more than traffic in January, leading to a decline in a key industry metric. The load factor for the month fell to 75.1% from 76.3%, as traffic rose 8.6% to 8.05 billion revenue passenger miles while capacity increased 10.2% to 10.71 available seat miles. Passenger revenue for available seat mile declined 1%. The stock has climbed 15% over the past three months through Friday, compared with gains of 9.4% in the NYSE Arca Airline index XAL, -0.24% and 1.2% in the S&P 500.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020908:16
SYMBOL = AAL
American Airlines January traffic declines, raises fuel price outlook
American Airlines' stock AAL, -0.18% dropped 1.9% in premarket trade Monday, after the air carrier reported a decline in January traffic and raised its first-quarter outlook for fuel prices. The company said traffic declined 2.8% from a year ago to 16.8 billion revenue passenger miles, while capacity fell 0.2% to 21.5 billion available seat miles. Load factor declined 2.1 percentage points to 78.2%. Given the recent jump in oil and fuel prices, the company said it raised its first-quarter estimate for fuel costs per gallon to range of $1.81 to $1.86 from $1.71 to $1.76. As a result, the company cut its adjusted margin estimate to 12% to 14% from 13% to 15%. The stock has run up 11% over the past three months through Friday, while the S&P 500 has gained 1.2%. Crude oil prices surged 7.2% last week.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015020907:42
SYMBOL = ANF
Abercrombie & Fitch downgraded, price target slashed at Wunderlich
Shares of Abercrombie & Fitch ANF, -0.30% were falling 3.4% in light, premarket trade Monday, after Wunderlich Securities slashed its rating to sell from hold on the belief that hopes for a turnaround are overdone. Analyst Eric Beder also cut his stock price target falls to $17 from $30. He wrote in a note to clients that he believes both Abercrombie and Hollister have been unable to retain any pricing power as they switched away from logo-driven products. He also believes dollar strength will hurt its international business, as well as its domestic business that is "highly dependent" on tourist-driven traffic. "When combined with weak management credibility, we believe the pieces are in place for material disappointments when 4Q results are announced on March 4," Beder wrote. The stock has lost 13% over the past three months through Friday, compared with a 1.2% gain in the S&P 500.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015021916:38
SYMBOL = MRVL
Marvell Technology shares hit by lower profit
Marvell Technology Group Ltd. said its January-quarter revenue and profit declined and the chip maker expects results for the current quarter below Wall Street estimates.
In after-hours trading, Marvell shares fell 4% to $15.50.
For the current quarter, Marvell projects earnings excluding items of 18 cents a share, plus or minus a cent, on revenue of $810 million to $830 million. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters project earnings of 22 cents a share on revenue of $884 million.
Marvell specializes in microprocessor architecture and digital-signal processing, with its products used for technology in areas like mobile, wireless and storage.
The company has launched Wi-Fi microcontrollers and other items targeting the "Internet of Things" sector. In January, Marvell launched the Smart Home Cloud Center platform, intended to help manufacturers, cloud service providers and telecom carriers offer products that integrate tasks like managing network connectivity and automating appliances.
Hedge fund Greenlight Capital is a Marvell shareholder.
For the quarter ended Jan. 31, Marvell reported a profit of $81.7 million, or 16 cents a share, down from $97.1 million, or 19 cents a share, a year earlier. Earnings excluding stock-based compensation and other items fell to 25 cents a share from 29 cents a share.
Revenue fell 8% to $857.5 million.
Marvell had projected expects earnings excluding items of 24 cents a share, plus or minus two cents, on revenue of $880 million to $900 million.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014102408:47
SYMBOL = COG
Cabot Oil Gas Corp. said its third-quarter earnings grew 44% on the strength of higher production volume in key segments.
As a company benefiting from the current energy boom, Cabot had posted stronger earnings over the past few years. Still, the recent results missed Wall Street expectations. Earlier this year, the company said it would spend $210 million to boost acreage in the Eagle Ford Shale, a rock formation in south Texas, increasing its position in the area to about 83,000 net acres from 53,000.
Overall, the Houston-based company posted a profit of $100.8 million compared with $69.9 million a year earlier. Earnings per share increased to 24 cents a share from 17 cents a share a year earlier.
Excluding special items such as sale of assets, per-share earnings fell to 20 cents from 18 cents a year earlier. Revenue grew 17.5% to $512 million.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected earnings of 22 cents per share on revenue of $516 million.
Production volume rose to 132.4 billion cubic feet equivalent, an increase of 24% over last year's comparable quarter. Production volume for liquids, including crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids, increased 7% to 961,000 barrels.
Natural gas price realizations, including the effect of hedges, were $3.06 per thousand cubic feet, down 9% compared to the third quarter of 2013. Oil price realizations, including the effect of hedges, were $94.79 per barrel, also down 9% from a year earlier.
Operating expenses increased 4.5% to $322.8 million.
The company reaffirmed its 2015 production growth guidance range of 20% to 30%. Cabot expects to drill 180-to-190 net wells in 2015, including 95-to-100 net wells in the Marcellus Shale and 80-to-85 net wells in the Eagle Ford Shale.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015022007:51
SYMBOL = LH
Laboratory Corp. of America Holdings gave an upbeat outlook for the year on Friday, while also reporting higher volumes helped offset currency headwinds to drive a stronger-than-expected profit for its fourth quarter.
For 2015, the Burlington, N.C.-based medical-services provider expects earnings of $7.35 to $7.70 a share, above analyst estimates of $7.34 a share. It also expects revenue growth of 40% to 44%, after adjusting for the negative impact of currency.
LabCorp's revenue has benefited from several recent acquisitions, such as last year's deal with Medtox Scientific Inc., which expanded its presence in specialized toxicology testing. In September, the company said it would acquire LipoScience Inc. for $85 million to expand its offering of personalized diagnostic tests.
Earlier this week, LabCorp completed its acquisition of drug-development company Covance Inc. for about $5.7 billion. For this year, revenue growth in the Covance business is expected to be about 4% to 6%, again after adjusting for negative currency impact.
Overall, LabCorp reported a profit of $119.6 million, or $1.39 a share, down from $126.3 million, or $1.43 a share, a year earlier. Excluding restructuring costs and amortization expense, per-share earnings grew to $1.65 a share, compared with $1.61 a share last year.
Sales rose 5.3% to $1.51 billion. The increase was due mostly to higher volume and acquisitions, though this was partially offset by pricing and the negative effect of currency. However, revenue per requisition fell 1.1% from a year earlier, partly due to the effect of the strong dollar.
Analysts had expected per-share earnings of $1.63 on revenue of $1.5 billion.
Shares of LabCorp, which were inactive premarket, have risen about 9% this year through Thursday's close.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015022008:00
SYMBOL = FNM
Fannie Mae said its profit declined in the most recent quarter while it again warned that more declines are likely in the future.
The mortgage-finance firm also said that it will have paid $136.4 billion in dividends to the U.S. Treasury after a $1.9 billion payment in March.
Like rival Freddie Mac, Fannie was bailed out by the U.S. government during the financial crisis in 2008. Both firms are required to pay almost all of their profit to the Treasury in the form of dividends.
Fannie reported a profit of $1.31 billion in the most recent quarter, down from a profit of $6.46 billion a year earlier.
Fannie said it expects to remain profitable on a yearly basis "for the foreseeable future," but it warned of lower income from resolution agreements, lower credit-related income and further declines in net interest income from the firm's retained mortgage portfolio assets.
The company said its net revenue fell to $5.47 billion from $6.99 billion in the company's fourth quarter, and its net interest income rose to $5.1 billion from $4.85 billion.
The single-family serious delinquency rate was 1.89% in the most recent period, down from 1.96% at the end of the previous quarter. It has declined for 19 consecutive quarters, the firm said.
Fannie said its credit-related income was $97 million, down from $1.08 billion a year earlier.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015022007:17
SYMBOL = DE
Deere's stock falls as lowered outlook offsets profit beat
Shares of Deere & Co. DE, +0.13% fell 1.3% in premarket trade, after the farm equipment maker beat fiscal first-quarter profit expectations, as strength in its construction and forestry business helped offset weakness in its agricultural business, but lowered its equipment sales outlook for the year. For the quarter ended Jan. 31, earnings fell to $386.8 million, or $1.12 a share, from $681.1 million, or $1.81 a share, in the year-earlier period. The FactSet consensus analyst estimate was for earnings per share of 82 cents. Total revenue fell to $6.38 billion from $7.65 billion, as equipment sales dropped 19% to $5.61 billion, compared with analyst forecasts of $6.09 billion and $5.49 billion, respectively. For fiscal 2015, Deere said it now expects equipment sales to fall 17% from a year ago, compared with a previous projection of a 15% decline. The stock has gained 7.4% over the past three months through Thursday, while the S&P 500 has advanced 2.2%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015022015:26
SYMBOL = IRM
Iron Mountain Fourth Quarter 2014 Financial Results – Strong Fourth Quarter Operating Performance Driven by Solid Constant Dollar Storage Rental Growth and Continued Volume Gains – – Full-year Results in Line with Guidance Prior to the Impact of Currency Translation – – 2015 Guidance Updated to Reflect Impact of Foreign Currency, while C$ Expectations are Unchanged –
•Total reported revenues for the quarter were $778 million, compared with $768 million in 2013, while full-year total reported revenues were $3,118 million, compared with $3,025 million in 2013. On a constant dollar (C$) basis, total revenue growth for the quarter was 4.6%, reflecting solid storage rental revenue gains of 5.2% and service revenue growth of 3.7%. For the year, C$ total revenue growth was 4.4%, driven by storage rental revenue gains of 5.4% and service revenue growth of 2.9%.
•Adjusted OIBDA for the quarter was $220 million, compared with $195 million in 2013, while Adjusted OIBDA for the year was $926 million, compared with $895 million in 2013. Adjusted OIBDA for 2013 included $19 million of costs associated with the company’s restructuring in the fourth quarter and $23 million for the full year. Adjusted OIBDA for 2014 included $3.5 million of restructuring costs.
•Adjusted EPS for the fourth quarter was $0.25 per diluted share, compared with $0.21 per diluted share in 2013, while Adjusted EPS for the year was $1.36 per diluted share, compared with $1.40 per diluted share in 2013. Adjusted EPS for the quarter and full-year 2014 reflects a structural tax rate of 14.4%, while 2013 results have been restated to reflect a structural tax rate of 15.0%, for comparability with 2014, the year in which the company’s conversion to a REIT became effective. Both 2013 and 2014 Adjusted EPS include the impacts to Adjusted OIBDA noted above.
•GAAP EPS for the fourth quarter of 2014 was $0.06 per share, primarily due to charges related to the early extinguishment of debt, which reduced GAAP EPS by $0.08 per share. GAAP EPS for 2014 of $1.67 per share includes net tax benefits related to the deferred tax adjustment and other taxes related to the company’s conversion to a REIT effective January 1, 2014, partially offset by incremental taxes related to foreign repatriation.
•Funds From Operations, or FFO (Normalized), per share was $0.52 for the quarter and $2.27 for the year.
•C$ total storage rental growth of 5.4% for 2014 reflected strong increases of 12.9% in the company’s International business (including 27.6% C$ growth in Emerging Markets) and storage rental growth in the North American Records and Information Management (RIM) and North American Data Management (DM) segments of 2.8% and 2.7%, respectively.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20150219
SYMBOL = NDLS
Noodles' stock plunges after results, outlook disappoint
Shares of Noodles & Co. NDLS, -1.10% plunged 14% in after-hours trade Thursday, after the fast-casual restaurant chain reported disappointing fourth-quarter results and 2015 profit outlook. Net earnings for the quarter ended Dec. 30 rose to $3.5 million, or 11 cents a share, from $2.4 million, or 8 cents a share, in the same period a year ago. Excluding non-recurring items, adjusted earnings per share were 13 cents, below the FactSet consensus analyst estimate of 14 cents. Revenue rose 19% to $108.5 million, as company-owned same-store sales increased 1.3%, missing analyst forecasts of $110.1 million and 1.8%, respectively. For 2015, the company expects adjusted EPS growth of 20%, while the FactSet consensus of 51 cents implies 34% growth from 2014 EPS of 38 cents. The stock has rallied 26% over the past three months through Thursday's close, while the S&P 500 has gained 2.4%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20150223
SYMBOL = OCN
Ocwen's stock rallies after deal to sell portfolio of mortgage servicing rights
Shares of Ocwen Financial OCN, -4.20% ran up 8.9% in premarket trade Monday, after the company announced a deal to sell a $9.8 billion portfolio of mortgage servicing rights to Nationstar Mortgage NSM, -1.09% The deal, which consists of 81,000 performing loans owned by Freddie Mac FMCC, -0.37% is expected to close by March 31. "This transaction represents the first step in the execution of our previously-announced strategy to transfer certain types of non-strategic servicing," said Ocwen Chief Executive Ronald Faris. Nationstar's stock was indicated 1% higher in premarket trade. Ocwen's stock has tumbled 59% over the past three months through Friday, compared with a 2.3% gain in the S&P 500.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2015022216:53
SYMBOL = VRX
Valeant Pharmaceuticals to buy Salix for about $10 billion
Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. said Sunday it would buy Salix Pharmaceuticals Ltd. for about $10 billion, a return to its big deal-making ways after a failed bid for Botox maker Allergan Inc. last year.
Quebec-based Valeant VRX, +0.39%  said it would pay $158 a share in cash for Salix SLXP, +0.20% That is just above Friday’s closing price of $157.85 for the Raleigh, N.C., drug company’s shares, which had risen recently on reports of a potential deal.
The deal will take Valeant into a growing, multibillion-dollar market for drugs treating stomach disorders like traveler’s diarrhea. Valeant estimates the overall U.S. market for stomach-disorder treatments is $5 billion and growing 5% a year, while Salix’s sales are growing even faster than that.
Yet the deal will come at a cost for Valeant, roughly doubling its debt to $31 billion, according to Chief Executive Michael Pearson.
Also, Salix is a tarnished asset. In November, Salix disclosed a revision to its wholesale-inventory levels that suggested demand for its drugs might not be as high as previously thought. In recent months, the company’s chief financial officer and chief executive have left.
Valeant expects to lose out on about $500 million in sales this year as distributors reduce drug inventory levels to adjust for the accounting issues, Pearson said.
Valeant sells eye and skin drugs. It had signaled in recent months that it would focus on growing its own businesses, after the company had failed to win Allergan. The Botox maker, which was bought by Actavis PLC for $66 billion, criticized Valeant as a deal machine.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 20140223
SYMBOL = WOR
Worthington Industries' stock falls after profit warning
 Worthington Industries' stock WOR, -0.15% slumped 2% in after-hours trade Monday, after the metals processing company warned that fiscal third-quarter profit will be "significantly" below year ago levels, given the sharp drop in steel prices and the softening of demand in some key markets. The company said the adverse market conditions are expected to hurt fourth-quarter results as well. The company said it did not anticipate the amount and speed of the decline in steel prices, which have fallen by over $100 a ton since mid December. The FactSet consensus analyst estimate for per-share earnings was for a decline to 59 cents from 60 cents in the third quarter, and a rise to 67 cents from 61 cents in the fourth quarter. The stock had lost 19% over the past three months through Monday's close, while the S&P 500 has gained 2.2%.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091019:44
SYMBOL = AAPL
(Reuters) - The addition of a mobile payments service to Apple Inc's next iPhone could help to boost sales of the larger-screen phones and claw back market share lost to mobiles running on Google Inc's Android platform.
Apple shares rose as much as 1.3 percent on Wednesday, a day after the launch of the iPhone 6 and the Apple Watch - the first new product introduced by Chief Executive Tim Cook.
At least six brokerages raised their price target on Apple's stock by as much as $16 to a high of $116, but there was also a rare downgrade to the stock.
Many on Wall Street hailed Apple Pay - the company's new wireless payment system - with Piper Jaffray's Gene Munster calling it the "star of the show" at Tuesday's gala launch.
It will allow iPhone 6 and 6 Plus users to pay for a burger at McDonald's Corp or groceries at Whole Foods Market Inc at the tap of a button, using their American Express Co, Visa Inc or Mastercard Inc bank cards.
Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, Motorola Mobility and others include similar wireless technology in many Android smartphones. But with payment systems such as Google's Wallet failing to catch on, the technology is not standard in handsets.
"On the mobile payments front, we believe the company made a major breakthrough and cracked an important and vexing issue that has plagued the industry for several years regarding customer ownership," William Blair analysts wrote in a note.
Cook, who took over as CEO from Steve Jobs in 2011, has been under pressure to launch new services and come up with larger-screen phones to counter Samsung's popular Galaxy Note phablets.
Worldwide market share of iPhones, which contribute more than half of Apple's revenue, slipped to 11.7 percent for the quarter ended June from 13 percent a year earlier, according to research firm IDC. (bit.ly/Vqxmts)
"Apple Pay is a feature that should help sell Apple products and provide some small help to the bottom line," BMO Capital Markets analysts said.
But Andy Hargreaves, analyst at Pacific Crest, said growth potential from the iPhone 6 was largely priced into Apple's shares. He cut his rating to "sector perform" from "outperform", becoming the first analyst since May to downgrade the stock.
Apple Watch, the company's first new product since the iPad, is tethered to the iPhone 6 models. Starting at $349, it will receive phone calls and messages, play music and serve as a digital wallet to pay for goods.
The watch, which will go on sale in the United States next year, has received mixed reactions. Fashion commentators like its clean aesthetic, while some tech writers pointed out Apple's silence over battery life. 
Sony Corp, Samsung, LG Electronics Inc and Qualcomm Inc have launched smartwatches based on Google's Android Wear, without great success.
"Apple Watch is attractive, but the need for phone tethering, short battery life, and lack of compelling features for people who do not want a watch will limit the market," Hargreaves said.
Apple shares were up slightly at $98.18 in morning trading. They closed down 0.38 percent on the Nasdaq on Tuesday.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091017:45
SYMBOL = TWTR
Twitter Inc (TWTR.N) said it plans to raise $1.3 billion by issuing convertible senior notes, its first debt offering since its market debut in November.
Twitter shares fell about 1.5 percent in extended trading on Wednesday.
The company plans two offerings worth 650 million each in convertible senior notes due to mature in 2019 and 2021, the microblogging website said in a filing. 
Twitter will also grant initial purchasers an option to buy up to $100 million in each of the offerings.
The San Francisco-based company said it would use part of the net proceeds for general corporate purposes.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014091017:33
SYMBOL = WMT
Retail giant Wal-Mart joined a group of volunteers counting corn ears and soybean pods in fields in the United States recently in a clear sign traditional crop tours are expanding their appeal from farmers and traders to all those with a stake in the U.S. food chain.
These annual trips to gather detailed on-the-ground information on crops in the world's biggest grains producer have long been seen as a way to glean market-moving details not found in commodity analyst notes or government reports.
But now their popularity is booming as a chance for those usually far from the field to develop relationships with growers themselves and to earn mud-on-the-boots credibility with clients and suppliers.
The Pro Farmer crop tour last month involved 120 people, double the number a decade ago, from countries spanning Switzerland to Argentina, who travelled roughly 1,500 miles (2,500 km) across the Midwest and waded into more than 1,300 fields.
Wal-Mart, known for its low prices, sent representatives for the first time on this tour, after trying out a wheat trip two years ago. It has a rising interest in food supplies, having grown its grocery business from around 7 percent a decade ago to over 70 percent of sales now.
"We are always looking for ways to better understand our business. We attend farm tours to learn about crops so we can make smart buying decisions in our efforts to pass on savings to our customers," said Tim Robinson, Wal-Mart's director of dry grocery, who traveled from Ohio to Minnesota with the tour.
After scouting a corn field in Ford County, Illinois, a roadside encounter with a farmer gave Robinson just such knowledge. The farmer said his crop, slated for delivery to snacks maker Frito-Lay, whose products pack Wal-Mart store shelves, was by far his best ever.
That revelation echoed what Robinson had encountered all week: massive corn yields that have reduced grain costs for his suppliers to the lowest in years.
Target Corp, which has also expanded grocery in recent years, declined to comment when asked if it would attend in future. Supervalu Inc, whose chains include Cub and Save-A-Lot, also did not attend but a spokesman said it regularly meets growers.
Other new volunteers include analysts and traders a few states away to as far afield as Britain or Thailand who feel they get information which gives them an edge over competitors.
"You can only really understand a market by getting dirty and in ags that means you go get out and about and literally get mud on your boots," said Fiona Boal, a London-based analyst with asset manager Hermes on her third tour.
She called back farmers she met on the tour to confirm that soybean growth had exploded after the rain-soaked excursion. "That sort of anecdotal information from informed on-the-ground sources is invaluable to an investor," she said.
Insights gleaned from the tour encouraged first-year participant Angie Maguire, a trader and elevator manager in Charlotte, Michigan, to lock in first quarter 2015 corn sales to a commercial buyer, confident that prices were likely to drop.
"Some other folks may not step up and be willing to put sale on but I feel comfortable after seeing the crop," she said.
The tours are not without critics, however, who say they focus on incomplete information that trickles out via phone, email and social media.
Data from other tours, such as those hosted by Lanworth, a division of Thomson Reuters, or by forecaster MDA Weather Services, tends not to emerge until the end as they draw smaller crowds and information is shared with a limited client base.
Corn and soybean futures each fell more than 1 percent during the Pro Farmer tour. 
"My take on yield surveys. The more information that's known about our crops the less we receive for them," tweeted Tom Burnham, an Arkansas farmer who has never participated. 
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014090808:14
SYMBOL = CPB
Campbell Soup Co (CPB.N) on Monday reported lower-than-expected quarterly sales as markets for its soup and snack products remained sluggish.
Shares of Campbell, which owns healthy food brand Bolthouse Farms as well as Pepperidge Farm snacks, were down 3.2 percent at $43.12 in trading before the market opened.
The company said sales rose to $1.85 billion in the fourth quarter ended on Aug. 3 from $1.72 billion a year earlier. Analysts on average were expecting $1.87 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. 
Organic sales, which exclude the effects of acquisitions and currency, fell 5 percent in the U.S. simple meals business, which includes Campbell's soup. 
Chief Executive Officer Denise Morrison said the company continued to expect fiscal-year growth below its long-term targets. For fiscal 2015, Campbell expects sales growth of 1 percent to 2 percent and earnings per share of $2.45 to $2.50, excluding special items.
Fourth-quarter net income was $137 million, or 43 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier loss of $158 million, or 50 cents a share.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014090813:10
SYMBOL = HTZ
Mark Frissora has resigned as chief executive of Hertz Global Holdings Inc (HTZ.N), citing personal reasons, as pressure from investors mounts following a series of accounting errors.
Hertz's shares rose as much as 5 percent after the No. 2 U.S. car rental company said it had begun the search for a replacement. Several investors and analysts named Scott Thompson, former CEO of Dollar Thrifty, as a possible candidate.
Brian MacDonald, CEO of Hertz's equipment rental business, which will soon be spun off, was named interim chief executive.
Hertz has owned up to a string of accounting errors, originating in 2011, that will require it to restate or correct its financial results for the past three years. The company last month withdrew its full-year financial forecast. 
Disclosing an 8.5 percent stake in Hertz last month, activist investor Carl Icahn said he planned to quiz management over accounting issues. 
Private investment firm Fir Tree Partners Inc, which owned 3 percent of Hertz's stock at the end of the second quarter, has said Frissora had "completely lost credibility." 
"I'm sure he got the message that people don't want him," a different Hertz shareholder told Reuters. The investor declined to be identified, citing company policy.
Frissora, 58, also stepped down as chairman. He was not available for comment.
Frissora is credited for the shrewd acquisitions that helped Hertz to grow into a $12.7 billion company - more than two-and-a-half times its value when it listed in 2006, shortly after Frissora took the helm. 
"During Mark's tenure, Hertz has transformed from a single on-airport car rental brand to a world leading rental car company," said Linda Levinson, who was announced as independent non-executive chairwoman on Monday. 
Frissora presided over Hertz's buyout of Dollar Thrifty after a tussle with Avis Budget Group Inc (CAR.O). He also ranked fifth on Business Travel News' list of the 25 most influential executives of 2012.
But some analysts and investors have said Hertz had not been able to raise prices as much as it should have after swallowing up a major competitor. Some are calling for the man who led Dollar Thrifty at the time as a replacement for Frissora.
"There has been a clamoring for Scott Thompson, who did a fabulous job in taking Dollar Thrifty from close to bankruptcy to an $87.50 per share buyout," said Michael Millman, managing member of independent securities research company Millman Research Associates. Hertz had first offered $2 per share.
To Friday's close, Hertz's stock had fallen 0.6 percent this year compared with a 64 percent jump in the value of Avis, the third-largest U.S. car rental company. Privately held Enterprise Rent-A-Car is the largest player in the $24 billion market.
Hertz's shares were up 1.7 percent at $28.95 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Monday.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014090813:10
SYMBOL = C
Citigroup Inc's (C.N) third-quarter expenses are running "slightly higher" than three months ago because of efforts to prove to regulators that its risk and balance sheet management is good enough to allow more spending for dividends and share buybacks, the bank's chief financial officer said on Monday.
John Gerspach told an investor conference the company is "well on the way to making needed changes" in its capital planning for the Federal Reserve's next stress test early next year.
In March, the Fed Reserve rejected Citigroup's last capital plan in a surprising rebuke for Chief Executive Officer Mike Corbat. Gerspach acknowledged that the company had been wrongly confident in that plan. He said the company had 'a false set of understanding' of Fed requirements going into that test and has since been working constantly to improve its management.
Gerspach, in the first comments on third-quarter trading results from a major Wall Street executive, also said equity and fixed income market revenue is "roughly in line" with a year earlier.
Investment banking revenue is expected to be better than a year earlier, but less than in the second quarter because of seasonally lower underwriting, Gerspach said.
The CFO also said that Citigroup now estimates that a hypothetical one percentage point rise in short and long-term rates would increase the company's 2014 earnings by 43 cents a share. Stock analysts estimate, on average, that the company will earn about $3.69 per share this year, according to Thomson Reuters.
In Monday morning trading in New York Citigroup shares were up 0.3 percent to $52.46.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014090817:33
SYMBOL = HD
Home improvement retailer Home Depot Inc confirmed on Monday that its payment security systems have been breached, which could impact customers using payment cards at its stores in the United States and Canada.
Home Depot, however, said it has found no evidence that personal identification numbers (PINs) have been compromised, it said in a statement.
The breach was first reported by security website KrebsonSecurity on Sept. 3, which had said the problem could extend back to April and affect all of Home Depot's 2,200 stores in the United States. 
Home Depot said it is focusing its investigation from April this year, after its banking partners and law enforcement agencies first notified them of the breach last week.
"We owe it to our customers to alert them that we now have enough evidence to confirm that a breach has indeed occurred," Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Frank Blake said.
"It is important to emphasize that no customers will be responsible for fraudulent charges to their accounts."
Home Depot had said earlier it will roll out PIN- and chip-enabled cards at all its U.S. stores by the end of the year. 
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014090813:10
SYMBOL = MS
Morgan Stanley (MS.N) has agreed to pay $95 million to resolve a lawsuit accusing the Wall Street bank of misleading investors in mortgage-backed securities in the run up to the 2008 financial crisis.
The settlement, disclosed in court papers filed Monday in New York federal court, follows years of litigation by investors over allegedly false and misleading statements over the soured securities.
The deal stemmed from a lawsuit pursued by the Public Employees' Retirement System of Mississippi (MissPERS) and the West Virginia Investment Management Board.
The plaintiffs accused Morgan Stanley of violating U.S. securities law in packaging and selling mortgage backed securities in 13 offerings in 2006 and 16 offerings in 2007.
In the years since the litigation began in 2008, the plaintiffs were dealt a series of setbacks by U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain who dismissed various claims due to standing and timeliness.
After a ruling in May that dismissed claims brought by some of the plaintiffs, Morgan Stanley said MissPERS had become the lone named plaintiff to have purchased securities in the only remaining offering at issue in the case.
Morgan Stanley said Aug. 5 it had made agreements in principle to settle three class action lawsuits in New York, including the one detailed Monday. In relation to those agreements, it decided to boost its provisions for legal expenses by $53 million.
Morgan Stanley did not admit wrongdoing as part of the settlement. A bank spokesman declined comment, as did David Stickney, a lawyer for the plaintiffs at Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann.
In court papers, lawyers for the plaintiffs said they expected investors would on average receive a distribution of $2.63 per $1,000 in original face value offered.
Lawyers for the plaintiffs said they would also seek approval of a fee award of 17 percent of the settlement, or $16.2 million, plus up to $2 million in expense reimbursements.
The settlement must be approved by U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest, who took over the case in May.
The case is In re Morgan Stanley Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates Litigation, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 09-02137.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014090412:03
SYMBOL = GS
Goldman Sachs is reviving plans to raise at least $500 million with its first issue of Islamic bonds, a sign that Islamic finance is going mainstream as big conventional banks seek to tap Middle Eastern money.
The U.S. bank will meet investors in Qatar next Wednesday and the United Arab Emirates on the following day to discuss selling sukuk, a document from lead managers of the sale said on Thursday. The sukuk are expected to have a tenor of five years.
If the issue goes ahead after the investor meetings, Goldman will become only the second non-Islamic bank to sell sukuk, after the Middle Eastern unit of HSBC did a $500 million deal in 2011.
The underlying assets in Goldman's sukuk issue would be linked to commodities and crude oil, a source with knowledge of the plan said, adding that the proceeds would be used in the commodities business of J. Aron & Co, a Goldman unit.
Other global banks are poised to follow Goldman. In recent months, France’s Societe Generale and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Japan's largest lender, have been preparing to issue sukuk in Malaysia.
An initial attempt by Goldman to sell sukuk in 2011 ran into controversy and was called off as some in the industry accused it of failing to follow Islamic principles, which include bans on the payment of interest and pure monetary speculation.
But the U.S. bank is now returning to the market as the Islamic finance industry grows rapidly, fueled by booming economies in the Gulf and southeast Asia.
New issues of sukuk so far this year total $85.9 billion through 456 deals globally, up from $74.9 billion through 558 deals a year earlier, according to data from Zawya, a Thomson Reuters company. 
Those volumes remain small compared to conventional finance, but are now big enough to make it worthwhile for Western borrowers to get in on the act.
Governments in non-Muslim countries are also starting to issue sukuk; in June, Britain became the first Western government to do so, while Hong Kong, South Africa and Luxembourg all plan sales this year.
CONTROVERSY
For some investors, Goldman is a symbol of Western banking, and its first attempt to enter the sukuk market - a $2 billion issuance program registered with the Irish Stock Exchange three years ago - was dogged by suspicions that it might exploit Islamic finance.
Some analysts suggested Goldman might use the proceeds of the issue to lend money to clients for interest, or that the issue might not trade at par value, which could also contravene sharia principles. 
Although Goldman insisted that these concerns were unfounded and Islamic scholars had given its 2011 plan adequate certification, it never went ahead with the issue.
This time, the U.S. bank appears to be taking pains to avoid controversy. The document from lead arrangers said it would use a wakala structure for its sukuk, instead of the murabaha structure planned in 2011.
Murabaha is a cost-plus sale arrangement which is commonly used in some parts of the Islamic world but has been criticized by some scholars for being too close to conventional financial engineering.
Goldman's latest plan may indicate that wakala, in which one party manages assets on behalf of another, is becoming the structure of choice for big global banks. The HSBC issue in 2011 was wakala, and Societe Generale and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ have both chosen that structure for their plans.
Sales of Islamic financial instruments are checked for religious permissibility by sharia scholars engaged by the issuer. Goldman sought advice for its latest plan from three prominent scholars: Abdul Sattar Abu Ghuddah, Mohammed Elgari and Sheikh Nizam Yaquby, the source familiar with the plan said.
"Goldman wanted to do something accepted by the market and has worked very hard on the structure with their sharia board and advisers, and also sought endorsements from the sharia boards of the joint lead managers, besides other experts," the source said. 
Goldman chose itself, Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank, Emirates NBD, National Bank of Abu Dhabi and the investment banking arm of Saudi Arabia's National Commercial Bank to arrange the investor meetings, the document from lead managers said.
Initial indications are that Goldman's new plan may be received positively by the market. The involvement of top Western banks could help to develop Islamic finance by expanding its investor base and the pool of expert bankers involved in it.
"It has always been my view that it's good for them to make a comeback. This is a market that welcomes all kinds of issuers," Daud Bakar, chairman of the sharia advisory council under Malaysia's central bank, told Reuters.
"They need to make sure there is full disclosure on what the underlying project is. Also they need to consult with sharia scholars."
Mohamad Akram Ladlin, executive director at the International Shari’ah Research Academy for Islamic Finance, said: "As with any issuance it is encouraged if the purpose of it is for good: to develop infrastructure, to enhance Islamic finance, for example.
"The earlier controversy was with their background, their image in the industry. There were also issues with the structure of the sukuk. If they can overcome these, why not?"
The sukuk would be issued through a vehicle called JANY Sukuk Co and be guaranteed by Goldman Sachs. The issue is expected to be rated A-minus by Standard & Poor's and A by Fitch Ratings, identical to the ratings of the investment bank, the document added.
The issue would be listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange; trading wakala sukuk is less controversial than trading murabaha instruments, many scholars believe.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014090406:07
SYMBOL = BA
Boeing Co said on Thursday it expects China to need more than 6,020 aircraft in the next 20 years, an 8 percent rise over last year's two-decade estimate, as growing overseas leisure travel drives demand for single-aisle and wide body planes.
The aircraft maker's new estimate of 6,020 planes, valued at $870 billion (528.91 billion pounds), is up from the 5,580 it estimated last year and represents a near tripling of China's current fleet. The country, the world's second-biggest aircraft market, is essential to Boeing's long-term global strategy.
"New business models like low-cost carrier, regional carriers are driving demand for more direct flights to more destinations," said Randy Tinseth, vice president of marketing at Boeing Commercial Airplanes, speaking at a media briefing in Beijing. 
Boeing expects China to overtake the United States as the world's single-biggest aircraft market in the period through 2032.
Chinese airlines are increasingly training their sights on overseas routes as the domestic market cools amid a slowing economy and government budget austerity. The overseas push is also fueled by rising numbers of outbound leisure travelers, expected to double to 200 million by 2020, according to brokerage CLSA.
Besides intensifying its coverage of neighboring countries, Air China alone has opened three new routes to the United States since July, 2013, including launching a three-time weekly service to Honolulu in January, 2014. The last time it launched new flights to the United States was in the early 1980s.
China Southern Airlines, the largest carrier on China-Australia routes, started flying non-stop to New York last month. Even budget carrier Spring Airlines, which flies mostly domestic and some Asian routes on its Airbus Group A320 jets, has been weighing an option to buy wide-body Airbus A330 planes.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014082018:44
SYMBOL = HPQ
Hewlett-Packard Co posted a surprise increase in quarterly revenue after sales from its personal computer division climbed 12 percent, but a flat to declining performance from its other units underscored the company's uphill battle to revive growth.
HP sales rose a mere 1 percent to $27.6 billion in its fiscal third quarter from $27.2 billion a year earlier. Wall Street analysts had forecast a modest drop in revenue to $27.01 billion. 
The Silicon Valley giant is undergoing a major overhaul aimed at cutting costs and re-orienting itself toward higher-margin businesses such as computing infrastructure. It's trying to reduce a reliance on PCs and move toward servers, storage and networking for enterprises - part of Chief Executive Officer Meg Whitman's effort to return the sprawling company to growth.
Whitman credited personal computer demand for "coming back some" as consumers and corporations upgraded ageing machines. She was pleased with 2 percent growth in revenue to $6.9 billion at the Enterprise Group, the company's second-largest business that deals in networking, storage and servers.
"It's a turnaround in a declining business," Whitman said in an interview. She singled out a 9 percent increase in sales of industry-standard servers in particular, saying uncertainty around Lenovo's acquisition of IBM Corp's low-end server unit helped steer business to HP.
"We've been able to capitalize on that uncertainty and our win rates are up against IBM," Whitman added.
She pegged Russia and China - countries whose relations with the United States have come under strain - as weak spots for PC sales, though Whitman said its Chinese business as a whole remained on solid footing.
HP intends to remain rigorous on costs to try and boost profitability. In May, it estimated another 11,000 to 16,000 more jobs needed to be cut on top of 34,000 previously announced.
It narrowed its earnings forecast for the full year to $3.70 to $3.74 per share, from $3.63 to $3.75. The company posted $1.7 billion or 89 cents per share of non-gaap diluted net earnings in the third quarter, up 3 percent and in line with forecasts.
Whitman said HP was assessing its $4 billion software business in view of an industry migration toward Internet-based or cloud software. And she said the company, with $4.9 billion in operating company net cash at the end of the fiscal third quarter, could make acquisitions if needed.
The company prefers to build its own capabilities and buying when it cannot develop inhouse, Whitman told analysts on a conference call. HP also remains committed to returning at least half its cash flow to shareholders, via dividends and buybacks.
"We're in a position to make acquisitions the way we weren't over the past year," she said.
Shares of the company dipped 0.8 percent to $34.84 after-hours. They closed at $35.12 on the New York Stock Exchange.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014082012:00
SYMBOL = TGT
Target Corp cut its full-year earnings forecast as it offers more discounts to attract cash-strapped customers and win over shoppers unnerved by a massive holiday-season data breach.
The third-largest U.S. retailer, however, said sales and traffic have improved in the past few weeks as the back-to-school season begins. 
Target's shares rose 1 percent to $59.81 in noon trading. 
The company's U.S. same-store sales rose more than 1 percent in July, Chief Financial Officer John Mulligan said in a statement. Sales have been "better" in August, driven by demand for back-to-school items, he said.
Sales at U.S. mass merchandisers such as Target and Wal-Mart Stores Inc have been hit this year as consumers struggling with stagnant wages and high inflation reduce spending. 
On top of that, Target has run up big losses in Canada, where its ambitious expansion has stumbled due to supply chain issues and a backlash from customers who had expected prices to be more in line with those in the United States. 
Target's same-store sales have either declined or failed to show growth in the past six quarters. Customer traffic has fallen for nine straight quarters, but is now showing signs of recovery. 
The fall in traffic slowed to 1.3 percent in the second quarter from 2.3 percent in the first quarter.
"A vast majority of guests have come back to us ... Trust and confidence is returning to Target," Mulligan said on a call, adding that discounting was a contributing factor. 
Target replaced its CEO Gregg Steinhafel with former Wal-Mart executive Brian Cornell after the data breach in the holiday shopping season last year led to the theft of at least 40 million payment card numbers and 70 million other pieces of customer data.
"I think slowly and maturely that the confidence is coming back and bulk of the shoppers shopping there again are getting comfortable," Edward Jones analyst Brian Yarbrough told Reuters.
Still, Target cut its full-year adjusted profit forecast to $3.10-$3.30 per share from $3.60-3.90, saying it was cautious due to sales and margin trends so far this year.
Analysts on average were expecting $3.49 per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. 
Target said earlier this month that the data breach had cost it a net $111 million so far after taking insurance into account.
The company did not provide an updated figure on Wednesday.
Net profit fell 62 percent to $234 million, or 37 cents per share, in the quarter ended Aug. 2.
Excluding items, the company earned 78 cents per share. 
Total sales rose 1.7 percent to $17.41 billion.
Analysts on average expected earnings of 79 cents per share, and revenue of $17.38 billion.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014082011:46
SYMBOL = WAG
Drugstore retailer Walgreen Co's WAG.N Chief Financial Officer, Wade Miquelon, and another top executive lost their jobs after a $1 billion forecasting error in the company's Medicare-related business, the Wall Street Journal reported.
Walgreen named Kraft Foods Group Inc's (KRFT.O) former CFO, Timothy McLevish, to replace Miquelon — its CFO of six years — on Aug. 4. 
Miquelon last month cut by $1.1 billion a forecast of $8.5 billion in pharmacy unit earnings for the year ending August 2016 that he had made at an April board meeting, the journal said. 
Miquelon's departure was due to his transitioning to newer opportunities, Walgreen told Reuters in an email.
The company had earlier said Miquelon would continue as advisor to assist it with a strategic partnership with Alliance Boots Holding Ltd [ABN.UL]. 
The newspaper report said the forecast error also led to the departure of Kermit Crawford, Walgreen's president of pharmacy, health and wellness.
Crawford announced his retirement last month after 31 years with the company.
He will continue as an advisor, and moves forward to pursue new opportunities outside, Walgreen said.
The forecasting error was based partly on contracts to sell drugs under Medicare, WSJ said.
Walgreen, which gets 25-30 percent of its prescriptions from Medicare Part D plans, had not factored in a spike in the price of some generic drugs that it sells as part of annual contracts, the paper said.
The company said it did not break down its pharmacy business revenue by segment.
Medicare Part D subsidizes the cost of prescription drugs and prescription drug insurance premiums for Medicare benefits in the United States.
Walgreen would pay Miquelon severance of $3.2 million and a performance bonus of about $1.2 million, and pay $3.3 million to Crawford as severance and consultation fees, the company said in a regulatory filing this month.
Miquelon, 49, joined Walgreen in June 2008 as senior vice president and CFO. In 2012, he was promoted as executive vice president, CFO and president, international, and joined the board of Alliance Boots.
Miquelon is also credited with playing a central role in launching the Walgreens-Alliance Boots deal.
Walgreen said earlier this month it would buy the 55 percent it does not already own of Alliance Boots for 3.13 billion pounds ($5.3 billion) in cash and 144.3 million shares, giving a total deal of about $15 billion.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014082011:12
SYMBOL = M
Macy's Inc (M.N) has agreed to pay $650,000 to New York's attorney general and install a monitor to resolve allegations that its security personnel targeted minority shoppers.
New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, whose office investigated several complaints from customers of the company's flagship store in midtown Manhattan, also said Macy's would adopt new anti-profiling policies, improve training and designate a compliance expert to report to the attorney general's office for the next three years.
The deal comes a week after Schneiderman's office reached a $525,000 agreement with Barneys New York [DBWLDB.UL] to resolve similar "shop-and-frisk" allegations from minority customers. 
"It is absolutely unacceptable - and it's illegal - for anyone in New York to be treated like a criminal simply because of the color of their skin," Schneiderman said in a statement.
In a statement, Macy's said it has also reached settlements in principle with various shoppers who filed state and federal lawsuits alleging discrimination.
Those complaints included a lawsuit filed by actor Rob Brown of HBO's "Treme" claiming he was detained and handcuffed at the store after purchasing a $1,300 gold watch. 
"Our company's policies strictly prohibit any form of discrimination or racial profiling and any occurrence of such behavior will not be tolerated in our organization," the company said.
The attorney general's office opened its investigation 18 months ago. Among other findings, the office said a review of data provided by Macy's showed the store detained minorities at significantly higher rates than white shoppers.
Macy's had previously operated under a consent decree reached in 2005 with the attorney general's office to resolve allegations that its security practices, including its handcuffing policies, violated anti-discrimination laws. That agreement ended in 2008.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014082622:32
SYMBOL = BKW
Burger King Worldwide Inc BKW.N announced plans to buy Canadian coffee and doughnut chain Tim Hortons Inc THI.TO for C$12.64 billion ($11.53 billion) in a cash-and-stock deal that would create the world's third-largest fast-food restaurant group.
With roughly $23 billion in combined annual sales, more than 18,000 restaurants in 100 countries and two strong, independent brands, the new entity would have an extensive global footprint and significant growth potential, the companies said in a joint statement on Tuesday. 
The companies had said on Sunday that they were in merger talks, and shares of both soared on Monday. 
Tim Hortons shareholders will receive C$65.50 in cash and 0.8025 shares of the new company for each of their shares. Based on Monday's close, the deal values Tim Hortons at C$94.05 a share, a 37 percent premium to Friday's close of C$68.78 on the Toronto Stock Exchange. 
Tim Hortons' New York-listed shares rose 12 percent to $83.50 in premarket trading. Burger King was up 5 percent at $33.96.
Billionaire investor Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway (BRKa.N) has committed $3 billion of preferred equity to finance the deal but will have no role in managing the business, the companies said.
3G Capital, a New York-based investment firm with Brazilian roots, owns roughly 70 percent of Burger King and is set to hold about 51 percent of the new combined company.
CANADIAN DOMICILE
Burger King Executive Chairman Alex Behring and Chief Executive Officer Daniel Schwartz will hold the same positions at the combined company. Tim Hortons CEO Marc Caira will be vice chairman.
The company is to be based in Canada, its largest market.
Investors and tax experts say the main reason for Burger King to move its domicile to Canada is to avoid having to pay double taxation on profits earned abroad, as the company would likely be subject to do if it remained in the United States.
Burger King, however, stressed Miami would remain its global home, while Oakville, Ontario, would will continue to be the worldwide headquarters of Tim Hortons.
The companies outlined a "commitment to Canada," vowing that Tim Hortons would continue its community programs. It sponsors kids' hockey teams across the country, among other projects.
Burger King also vowed to maintain "a meaningful number of Canadian-based executives" and that the deal would not change Tim Hortons' business model or relationships with franchises.
Shares in the new combined entity will be listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Burger King has secured commitments for $12.5 billion of funding for the cash portion of the transaction, including commitments for a $9.5 billion debt financing package led by JPMorgan (JPM.N) and Wells Fargo (WFC.N).
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014082616:41
SYMBOL = XOM
An Exxon Mobil Corp unit has agreed to pay $1.4 million to resolve U.S. government claims over a 2012 crude oil spill in Louisiana, the U.S. Justice Department said on Tuesday. 
ExxonMobil Pipeline Company discharged 2,800 barrels of crude oil after a pipeline ruptured, in violation of the Clean Water Act, the agency said. 
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014082615:33
SYMBOL = AAPL
Apple Inc (AAPL.O) is preparing to roll out a larger, 12.9-inch version of its iPad for 2015, with production set to begin in the first quarter of next year, Bloomberg cited people with knowledge of the matter as saying on Tuesday.
The report comes as Apple struggles with declining sales of its 10-inch and 7.9-inch tablets, which are faltering as people replace iPads less frequently than expected and larger smartphones made by Samsung Electronics Co Ltd (005930.KS) and other rivals encroach upon sales.
Apple has been working with its suppliers for over a year on larger touch-screen devices, Bloomberg cited the sources as saying. 
It is expected to introduce larger versions of its 4-inch iPhone next month, although the company has not publicized plans for its most important device.
Apple was not immediately available for comment.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014080418:19
SYMBOL = AIG
Insurer American International Group Inc (AIG.N) reported a better-than-expected 12.5 percent rise in quarterly profit, helped by strong performance across its major businesses and the sale of its former aircraft leasing unit.
AIG noted that it bought back about $1.1 billion of shares during the second quarter, part of the $2 billion in share buybacks it authorized in June. The company also declared a dividend of 12.5 cents per share. 
AIG shares rose 2.4 percent in extended trading. 
In commercial underwriting, AIG earned net premiums of $5.27 billion, up about 4 percent from a year earlier. The combined ratio improved to 95.4 from 101.7. In consumer underwriting, AIG earned net premiums of $3.25 billion, down slightly from a year earlier. The combined ratio fell to 98 from 100.1. 
A combined ratio below 100 indicates an underwriting profit, meaning an insurer is receiving more in premiums than it is paying out in claims. 
"The combined ratio was finally below 100 percent," said Gloria Vogel, an analyst with Drexel Hamilton in New York. "However, the accident year combined ratio was slightly worse than a year ago, and the expense ratio remains high."
Separately, AIG said it agreed to pay $960 million in cash to resolve litigation brought in 2008 and 2009 by investors who accused the insurer of misleading them about its finances ahead of the financial crisis that necessitated a government bailout.
The parties on July 15 accepted a mediator's proposal to resolve the dispute, AIG said in a regulatory filing.
The quarter's results also included sale of AIG's aircraft leasing unit to AerCap Ireland Limited. That meant a $1.4 billion after-tax gain on the sale of International Lease Finance Corp, (ILFC), AIG's last noncore business. 
AIG is in the middle of a turnaround after almost collapsing during the financial crisis under the weight of sour derivative bets. It has repaid the $180 billion bailout funds from 2008 and has focused on its core insurance business.
Net income, which included a $1.4 billion after-tax gain on the sale of ILFC, rose to $3.07 billion, or $2.10 per share, in the second quarter ended June 30 from $2.73 billion, or $1.84 per share, a year earlier. 
On an operating basis, AIG earned $1.83 billion, or $1.25 per share. That was up from $1.12 per share a year earlier and exceeded the average analyst estimate of $1.05 per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
In June, AIG said Peter Hancock, head of the company's property-casualty business, would succeed Bob Benmosche as chief executive and president, effective September 1. 
"I think Peter (Hancock) is largely going to be strategically a continuation of the strategy Benmosche identified," said Sanford C. Bernstein & Co analyst Josh Stirling.
That means continuing to streamline and improve efficiency and the use of data, Stirling said.
AIG shares were $53.95 after the bell, up 2.4 percent from the closing price of $52.66.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014080415:12
SYMBOL = MCD
McDonald's Corp said its business has been hurt by China's latest food scare that forced restaurants in the region to temporarily pull meat items from menus.
An undercover local Chinese TV report on July 20 showed workers at Shanghai Husi Food Co Ltd using expired meat and doctoring food production dates. Regulators immediately closed the factory, which is part of OSI Group LLC, a U.S. food supplier and important McDonald's partner.
"While this matter will negatively impact results in the near term, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact on full year 2014 earnings at this time," according to a regulatory filing from McDonald's, which has just over 2,000 restaurants in China.
McDonald's warning on Monday came just days after rival Yum Brands Inc, which has about 6,400 restaurants in China and whose KFC is the biggest Western brand in the country, also said the scandal was driving China customers away. 
McDonald's shares dropped 0.5 percent to $93.86 at mid-afternoon on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Shares of McDonald's and Yum have fallen 5.2 percent and 8.6 percent, respectively, since the scandal broke on July 20. 
McDonald's Holdings Co (Japan) Ltd on July 29 withdrew its full-year earnings forecast after the China meat scare caused sales to drop 15 to 20 percent on a daily basis. 
The company, which has more than 3,100 restaurants in Japan, previously had forecast an operating profit of 11.7 billion yen ($115 million) for 2014.
McDonald's affected markets account for about 10 percent of its total revenue, the world's largest burger chain said in its filing on Monday. About 15 percent of operating profit at McDonald's comes from its Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa unit that includes China and Japan, analysts said. 
The warning from McDonald's prompted Janney Capital Markets analyst Mark Kalinowski to cut his earnings per share estimates for the fast-food chain by 3 cents to $1.55 for the third quarter, and by 1 cent to $1.43 for the fourth quarter. 
Yum on July 30 warned that the scandal had hurt sales badly at its KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants over the previous 10 days. 
Yum got 35 percent of its operating profit from China last year and is more exposed to the market than McDonald's. 
Yum did not quantify the impact of the China scandal on its profits, but said that a sustained, significant sales impact would "have a material effect on full-year earnings per share." 
The double whammy of a food safety scare and bird flu in China battered sales at McDonald's and Yum last year. Those sales had just stared to recover when the latest food scandal emerged.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014080414:58
SYMBOL = GM
The U.S. government is investigating General Motors Co's (GM.N) auto financing arm over subprime auto loans it made and securitized since 2007, the company disclosed on Monday. 
General Motors Financial Co Inc said it was served with a subpoena from the Department of Justice directing it to turn over documents related to underwriting criteria.
The subpoena, which the company said was in connection with an investigation into possible violations of the civil fraud law FIRREA, also asked for information on the representations GM made about the criteria when the loans were pooled into securities.
Financial services firms have paid billions of dollars to resolve investigations under FIRREA into questionable mortgages pooled into securities in the run-up to the financial crisis. The new subpoena could be one of the first public acknowledgements that investigators are also looking at the securitization of subprime auto loans. 
FIRREA, the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act, allows the Justice Department to sue over fraud affecting a federally insured financial institution.
GM Financial was known as AmeriCredit Corp until the carmaker acquired it in October 2010. It issued $2.15 billion in securities backed by subprime auto loans in the first six months of 2014, making it the second-largest issuer of such securities for the period.
INCREASED SCRUTINY
The disclosure of the subpoena accompanies increased regulatory scrutiny of subprime auto loans.
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates national banks, warned in a June report that “signs of risk in auto lending are beginning to emerge.” 
Its assessment was based on lenders’ willingness to lengthen terms, chase borrowers with lower credit scores, and offer loans to buy cars that exceeded the value of the vehicle.
The disclosure also comes as the auto industry increasingly relies on subprime auto loans for growth.
New auto loans to borrowers with the lowest credit scores were up 51 percent in the first quarter compared to the same period in 2013, according to Experian Automotive. 
Meanwhile, new auto loans to borrowers with the highest credit scores were down 7 percent over the same time frame. 
Separately, regulators have brought some recent cases against auto lenders over allegations of discrimination.
In December, GM's former financing arm, Ally Financial Inc, agreed to pay $98 million to resolve claims by the Justice Department and the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that it charged minority borrowers higher interest rates than white borrowers.
A Justice Department spokeswoman had no immediate comment on the new GM subpoena. A spokesman for the consumer financial bureau declined to comment on whether the agency was examining potential fraud by auto lenders in the origination or securitization of subprime loans.
END OF ENTRY
DATE = 2014080413:34
SYMBOL = C
Citigroup Inc (C.N) North America head of Treasury and Trade solutions, Andrew Gelb, leaves- memo
Citigroup Inc (C.N) memo says Gelb will leave Treasury and Trade Solutions at end of this week for 'outside opportunity'
Citigroup Inc (C.N) memo says Michael Fossaceca will be interim head of North America Treasury and Trade Solutions
END OF ENTRY